2022-10-31 Monday, 31 October 2022

Musk outsources Twitter moderation to Tesla self-driving team, phones worldwide jump out of pockets and crash into fire trucks.

%

Come back Jaiku all is forgiven.

%
2022-11-01 Tuesday, 01 November 2022

Not surprised seeing cryptobros misunderstanding what a Veblen good is when they're advising Felon on how to price Twitter Verified checkmarks. These are the people who tried to sell butt-ugly monkey JPGs as Veblen goods, after all. 

[LGM: The Inverse Veblen][lgm-musk-veblen]

[lgm-musk-veblen]: https://www.lawyersgunsmoneyblog.com/2022/11/the-inverse-veblen

%

### Meta note on timestamps

I have discovered once again that the timestamp scheme I came up with when I created feed support was not optimal (The design principle was "LOL YOLO"). So I've changed it and thus (probably) updated all entries in all feed readers. Sorry about that. I hope it won't happen again.

(It will happen again.)

%

I thought watching Twitter descend into the nether depths of hell would be depressing but I have to admit it's also quite entertaining. 

%
2022-11-02 Wednesday, 02 November 2022

Expect Twitter terminating accounts for having fedi addresses in the bio, Andrew Lee style. 

%

#### [SourceHut terms of service updates, cryptocurrency-related projects to be removed][srht-crypto]

Excellent decision by Drew here, his stance against this waste of resources is to be applauded.

For those interested in a quick summary of the current pro-crapto talking points, the [HN discussion][hn-srht-crypto] offers most of them. 

[srht-crypto]: https://sourcehut.org/blog/2022-10-31-tos-update-cryptocurrency/

[hn-srht-crypto]: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33403780

%

#### [Bullshit Reporting: The Intercept’s Story About Government Policing Disinfo Is Absolute Garbage][techdirt-dhs]

Masnick pushing back against this obvious trash that of course got lots of play on HN and among tankies.

[techdirt-dhs]: https://www.techdirt.com/2022/11/02/bullshit-reporting-the-intercepts-story-about-government-policing-disinfo-is-absolute-garbage/

%

Automatically posting stuff from here to Fedi is coming along nicely. 

(and yes this post *might* be seen as a test of that functionality)

It's not ready yet though, it's getting late and I don't code good when tired.

%

In the immortal words of Gen. Jack D Ripper:

> I do not avoid Twitter, Mandrake. But I do deny it my essence.

%
2022-11-03 Thursday, 03 November 2022

### Fediverse integration

I whipped up a small tool that will poll this blog's feed and post new entries to a fediverse instance.

Because this blog doesn't have comments, feel free to rant in replies to those posts. 

<https://mastodon.social/@gerikson>

Code: <https://github.com/gustafe/post-to-fedi>

*Edit* it turns out that this is the 10,000th entry to this blog! Go me.

%

> A smart person simply would not have leveraged assets as collateral whose value was meaningfully affected by their own behaviour, and then very publicly nailed their own ballsack to a website nearly everyone hates, especially the people who use it

-- [@vexwerewolf](https://twitter.com/vexwerewolf/status/1587493581870272513?s=20)

%

Surprising (not surprising) to see the same people who were Very Wrong about Russia's illegal invasion of Ukraine being Very Wrong about what to do about Twitter.

%
2022-11-04 Friday, 04 November 2022

In terms of annoyance-to-rewards ratio, I think Gelmir Hero's Grave is the worst dungeon in Elden Ring. 

Chariots. And lava! And [Pages](https://eldenring.wiki.fextralife.com/Page), I hate those guys.

%

#### [CW: graphic imagery - How Russian soldiers ran a 'cleansing' operation in Bucha][apnews-bucha]

This is the reality the "realists" who want to appease Putin accept - that people will be apprehended and murdered by Russian soldiers. 

They don't care, because they're in countries far away from Russia, and if they aren't they'd be first to sign up to be Quislings.

[apnews-bucha]: https://apnews.com/article/bucha-ukraine-war-cleansing-investigation-43e5a9538e9ba68a035756b05028b8b4

%

WTF is wrong with (some) influencers?! 

Dietz, more like ditz amirite.

%

Odds on when the Fail Whale returns?

%

Skin in the game / insane in the brain.

%

### Ghost in the Shell thoughts

GitS was mentioned on lobste.rs. I'm maybe not a superfan of the franchise but I believe it stands head and shoulders over most other manga/anime fare. But that's because I really like material like *Patlabor* and *Planetes*.

I was late to GitS, I checked out the manga in English translation around 10 years ago from the awesome local library. I've watched both the "rebooted" movie and the original (better!) and the SAC series (great!). I've even tried to read the 1.5 manga, which sucks. 

If I'd discovered it during the 80s when cyberpunk was new and fresh... I dunno. I kinda like the technofetishist sidebars in the manga but if you've read you Gibson it's not really that new. It's weird to me how cyberpunk has become an aesthetic now. 

Anyway, GitS is fun in that Japanese way in that the main arc of SAC season 1 is basically just political corruption. There's no "take over the world" as in so much media now. Section 9 is a police unit (albeit vigilantic) and the show is a detective show. 

%

Is the "S-A-B-C" tier list ranking more general than in soulsbourne games? 

%

Data point amid the Twitter hand-wringing - no participants in Sweden's "Idol" have Twitter accounts. They have IG and TikTok handles. Twitter is for old people. 

%
2022-11-05 Saturday, 05 November 2022

Classic "trading memory for speed" implementation, Perl version:

> Perl implements lists with an array and first/last element offsets. The array is allocated larger than needed with the offsets originally pointing in the middle of the array so there is room to grow in both directions (unshifts and pushes/inserts) before a re-allocation of the underlying array is necessary. The consequence of this implementation is that all of perl's primitive list operators (insertion, fetching, determining array size, push, pop, shift, unshift, etc.) perform in O(1) time.

-- [Perlmonks post by lhoward](https://www.perlmonks.org/?node_id=17890)

%

Reminder: don't implement functionality then go to bed.

%

It's increasingly clear that the world's richest man, supposedly so smart he can run 3 companies at the same time, paid $44B to buy a company without knowing how that company made money.

%
2022-11-06 Sunday, 06 November 2022

#### [The legacies of the Ottoman Empire](https://archive.ph/Qufoh)

> Darke’s laudatory comments, however, will be welcomed in some parts of contemporary Turkey, where nostalgia for the Ottomans extends not only to hit TV series but to mainstream political debate that frames the end of empire as a disaster orchestrated by malign forces from afar. There has been talk of appealing to a “neo-Ottomanism” in foreign policy as a means of restoring the prestige of Turkey and the Turks, but also as a counterbalance to the perceived shortcomings of US and western policy across the Middle East.

> This strikes a chord with the cocktail of nostalgia and imperialism that is being mixed in other quarters too, especially those that are heirs to crumbled empires. The most obvious parallel, of course, is Russia, where Vladimir Putin is the cheerleader of a chorus clamouring for the restoration of past glories and the re-incorporation of peoples who were once subject to the whims of rulers in faraway capitals. Something similar is afoot in Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s Turkey, where the Ottoman Empire is seen through the rosiest of tinted spectacles, as a benign entity that brought peace and harmony to all its citizens.

%

*nopost* 

Testing a way to write here without posting to fedi.

*Update* seems to work! 

%
