2022-08-16 Tuesday, 16 August 2022

### A dialog

**Crypto Bro**: I'm using cryptocurrency, it enables me to make transactions that can't be stopped by the authorities!  
**Authorities**: OK  
**CB**: Only it's all public, for technical reasons, so everyone can see what I do.  
**A**: Interesting.  
**CB**: So I need to use a mixing service, so the authorities can't track my totally legitimate transactions. But the authorities have placed the endpoints of the mixing service on the OFAC list so it can't be used anymore!  
**A**: Yes, we believe it was being used by bad people to launder money.  
**CB**: <strike>Laundering money</strike>Privacy is a human right!  
**A**: We don't agree on that but never mind.  
**CB**: You can't censor the output of decentralized anonymous smart contracts!  
**A**: Actually we just did.  
**CB**: Code has rights!  
**A**: Now you're just being silly. Anyway if it's just code, no-one's being harmed by it. It's one less way for criminals to launder money.  
**CB**: We'll just set up more mixers! You've unleashed a monster!  
**A**: Perhaps. But mixers rely on "innocent" transactions to conceal criminal traffic. If we block the contract outputs, no-one who is "innocent" will want to risk their funds in it. That's a win from our side, we think.  
**CB**: *incoherent sputtering*

[The EFF are idiots](https://twitter.com/EFF/status/1559224086491934720).

[Nicholas Weaver has more](https://twitter.com/ncweaver/status/1559527533099433986):

> They happened to release their code as open source, and the instance of the program is running on a zombie basis, but nothing about the sanction was sanctioning "code".

> The sanction was "Tornado Cash the organization" and "These running instances of the money laundormat"

> And it really was "profit from" too.

> The "TORN" token was an unregistered security that paid the insiders.  The mixer claims 1% withdraw fees for any withdraw using a relayer to fund the gas fees.  So for laundering $1B, that is $10M to the organization.

*update 2022-08-20* 

[David Gerard: US sanctions Tornado Cash — and crypto shrieks in horror][dgerard-tc]

> Some outraged crypto advocates have suggested that the action against Tornado Cash shows the need for a decentralised alternative to GitHub. This demonstrates the rule that you will never find anyone who knows less about technology than a crypto guy talking about technology [...]

[dgerard-tc]: https://davidgerard.co.uk/blockchain/2022/08/09/us-sanctions-tornado-cash-and-crypto-shrieks-in-horror/

%
2022-08-17 Wednesday, 17 August 2022

How's it going with Felon's purchase of Blue hellsite? 

%
2022-08-19 Friday, 19 August 2022

#### What's more important, your kid or Tesla's share price?

[U.S. car safety agency warns Tesla owners: don’t test self-driving with children][nhtsa-tesla]

[nhtsa-tesla]: https://www.nextnewssource.com/u-s-car-safety-agency-warns-tesla-owners-dont-test-self-driving-with-children/

%
2022-08-20 Saturday, 20 August 2022

### [G.B. Trudeau predicts the Trump candidacy in 1986][imgur-trudeau]

[imgur-trudeau]: https://imgur.com/a/VzKUFHH

%
