2022-06-07 Tuesday, 07 June 2022

mourning doves imply the existence of afternoun hawks

%

[@QuinnyPig][web3-victim]:

> OH: 

> web1: You are the audience  
> web2: You are the product  
> web3: You are the victim  

[web3-victim]: https://twitter.com/QuinnyPig/status/1534038235231293442?s=20

%
[@kamilkazani (mid-thread)][russia-stem]:

> In reality it's more complicated. An intellectual with zero knowledge of humanities is nearly guaranteed to fall in love with the first theory he becomes acquainted of. That's why all those Soviet (and post-Soviet) STEM folk are such an easy prey for charlatans. Saw it many times

> Many Westerners think that Russians are into mysticism. As a general rule, that's wrong. (Smart) Russians don't fall for mysticism that easily as Westerners could imagine. What Russians really fall for easily and enthusiastically is pseudo science

[russia-stem]: https://twitter.com/kamilkazani/status/1534173681508925441?s=20

%
2022-06-08 Wednesday, 08 June 2022

Making slow progress in Elden Ring. I was quite proud of defeating the final boss in the Raya Lucaria Crystal Tunnels first try, with about half health and no FP (no flasks either). 

%

Great discussion about AI "art":

<gemini://oberdada.pollux.casa/gemlog/2022-06-06_artimages.gmi>

%
2022-06-09 Thursday, 09 June 2022

More progress in Elden Ring - I've moved over to a greatsword (Lordsworn's) from straight sword, and I've taken down 2 ulcerated tree spirits and a Night's cavalry. Feeling more confident about tackling new areas - banking runes before a difficult run, not fretting over losing a couple thou if something goes sideways.

%

Felon trying to buy Birdsite is a scab I can't help not picking at

#### [Inside Elon Musk’s new legal strategy for ditching his Twitter deal][qz-elon-twitter]

[qz-elon-twitter]: https://qz.com/2174898/inside-elon-musks-legal-strategy-for-ditching-his-twitter-deal/

%

Elden Ring progress this evening:

* Ancient hero of Zamor
* Magma Wyrm

%

Someone who has either never used Usenet or has very selective memories of its heyday asks HN about it. Refreshingly, many people have decent takes on this so-called "Golden Age" of the Internet.

<https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31681234>

Usenet was full of crap, but the Great Filter of history has removed it leaving only the carefully polished gems behind.

Also it was incredibly male and white. That's partly why I view retro-nostalgic efforts like Gemini with some skepticism. Their ideal is far too easily conflated with elitism. 

*Update, Fri 10 June 2022:*

This comment is probably the best of the bunch (I don't vouch for the commenter nor their other content): 

<https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31684856>

%
2022-06-12 Sunday, 12 June 2022

### [Specifying Spring ‘83][spring-83]

I must admit: I have a hard time reading Robin Sloan (ever since I read his novel [*Mr. Penumbra’s 24-Hour Bookstore*][penumbras]), and this post is not really any different. That said, it is an interesting idea, which I doubt will actually take off outside Silicon Valley hipster circles<sup>1</sup>.

[Lobste.rs discussion][f3pmz0].

<sup>1</sup> this is your cue to bookmark this and shame me when it becomes 
the dominant way to publish on the internet.

*Update Mon 13 June 2022:* having read through the [spec][83-spec], I have some further thoughts.

I was wondering what was preventing some rich asshole / troll from "buying up" all the available slots, but this is supposed to mitigated by a sort of hashcash like functionality. Public keys have to conform to a specific format, and they are intentionally limited in time (last 4 digits are the valid year, +/- a couple of years.

Items aren't stored forever, they're removed from the store after 28 days of inactivity. 

As the number of items nears the hard limit of 10M, the "difficulty" to add another item increases. 

The servers are organized into "realms", and each realm can have its own rules for how to implement spam prevention, moderation/"censorship", etc. So there's probably going to be strictly more than 10M items, as realms can diverge in what items they will keep. 

[spring-83]: https://www.robinsloan.com/lab/specifying-spring-83/
[penumbras]: https://gerikson.com/blog/books/read/Mr-Penumbras.html
[f3pmz0]: https://lobste.rs/s/f3pmz0
[83-spec]: https://github.com/robinsloan/spring-83-spec/blob/main/draft-20220609.md
%

### Weekend movies 

[Run (2020)][run-2020]

A homeschooled teenager, confined to a wheelchair, finds out that her loving mother isn't who she thinks she is. 

3/5, gets props for the protagonist actually being disabled and not just playing a disabled person, but otherwise very much by the numbers. 

[Destination Wedding (2018)][destination-2018]

The odd couple of Winona Ryder and Keanu Reeves(!) reluctantly attend a wedding together. Winona looks nothing like a Winona from *Heathers*, 30 years 
later, and it's jarring to see "John Wick" articulating complete sentences. 

I was reminded these two also starred in *A Scanner Darkly* but Keanu was very much Keanu in that movie. 

4/5 for pervasive cynicism.

[run-2020]: https://letterboxd.com/film/run-2020/
[destination-2018]: https://letterboxd.com/film/destination-wedding-2018/

%
