2022-09-19 Monday, 19 September 2022

Min f칬rutsp친else f칬r en kommande regering: M bildar tillsammans med KD. SD sl칛pper igenom den tillsammans med Liberalerna. Dom f친r avsev칛rda krav tillgodosedda - minskad asylmottagning mm., men kommer inte sitta i ansvarig st칛llning n칛r Sverige drabbas av l친gkonjunktur. N칛sta val g친r dom fram친t 칛nnu mer f칬r att "politikerna kan inte genomf칬ra n친got". Win-win f칬r dom bruna. 

%
2022-09-20 Tuesday, 20 September 2022

Feeling bad about not taking photos anymore.

%

Missed the email from Steam telling me I could purchase the Steamdeck so it went to someone else. Lucky bastard.

%
2022-09-21 Wednesday, 21 September 2022

Putin's vision: 300,000 soldiers marching with gleaming bayonets to the front.

Reality: 300,000 plane tickets out of Russia.

%
2022-09-22 Thursday, 22 September 2022

I'm seriously having more trouble with the damn Kindred of Rot in the lower levels of Elphael than I did with Malenia.

%

Nerds be like "huh this software looks pretty meh... wait the developer got kicked out from another project for being a giant dick??? OMG this is my new fav soft!!!!"

%

Put away Placidusax, Mogh and Hoarah Loux. My, my Mimic, and the Blasphemous Blade make a great team.

Also I might be a teeny bit overleveled. 

Two bosses to go.

%
2022-09-23 Friday, 23 September 2022

The police on Iceland (L칬greglan) reports they have arrested four people on suspicion of terrorism:

https://www.logreglan.is/haettuastandi-afstyrt/

It's been slowly filtering out in international media, but no mention of it on HN yet, which tells me it's Nazis.

%

### Hilary Mantel RIP

So sad to hear this. 

%
2022-09-24 Saturday, 24 September 2022

Finished Elden Ring.

I feel a bit empty.

%
2022-09-25 Sunday, 25 September 2022

An account with the handle "@LoliWifeGroomer" helped spread false rumors about a coup in China:

<https://twitter.com/atandra_ray/status/1573894063702810625?s=20>

%

#### [Creating the Innocent Killer: Ender's Game, Intention, and Morality][kessel-enders]

[kessel-enders]: https://johnjosephkessel.wixsite.com/kessel-website/creating-the-innocent-killer

I've never read more than a few chapters of a Card novel and now I feel entirely justified.

%

> Someday aliens are going to land their saucers in a field somewhere in New Jersey and everything is going to go just fine right up until we try to explain our calendar to them

-- [@Foone 游빗][foone-calendar]

[foone-calendar]: https://twitter.com/Foone/status/1572260363764400129?s=20

%

Good Twitter thread about Admiral Thomas Cochrane, who inspired Patrick O'Brian's Jack Aubrey.

<https://twitter.com/RussInCheshire/status/1539934516478984192?s=20>

%
