2022-09-26 Monday, 26 September 2022

After 2 years, 6 months and 15 days since the first reported death to Covid in Sweden we have finally(?) got it.

It's not too bad for me but my wife says it's the worst she's ever felt and she's famously uncomplaining.

%
2022-09-27 Tuesday, 27 September 2022

My first guess about who blew up the Nordstream pipelines in the Baltic would be Russian military hardliners who want to force Putin to go all in with a conflict with NATO.

However this Twitter thread seems to imply that Russia doesn't really have this kind of sabotage capability in the Baltic:

<https://twitter.com/CovertShores/status/1574750260743880710>

Tankies on HN and Twitter are of course blaming the US for covertly destroying any hopes that Germany would reach an accord with Russia during a harsh winter (German elites are of course complicit). Naturally Russia being the real culprit works in this scenario too. 

*Update 2022-09-28:* This is an interesting thread 

<https://twitter.com/EmmaMAshford/status/1575137413340561411?s=20>

*Update 2022-09-29:* and here's another one

<https://twitter.com/henryfarrell/status/1575465137389150209?s=20>

%
2022-09-28 Wednesday, 28 September 2022

The hardest boss in Elden Ring? It must be the damn jumping puzzle to reach the Frenzied Flame. Died more times there than when fighting Malenia. 

%

### Dude, where's my jetpack?

I'm living in the SF world of  my younger years - unfortunately, it's the world of John Shirley's [*A Song Called Youth*][a-song-youth]. European war waged between the Soviets and a fundamentalist Christian PMC who are planning a biological genocide. US population oppressed by "CIA Domestic".

[a-song-youth]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eclipse_Trilogy
%
