2022-04-29 Friday, 29 April 2022

### in-band data

Coming up hard against the realization that a fortune-style file format is pretty limiting.

So the format of this particular blog is a big file in `fortune` file format:

```
YYYY-MM-DD today's title 
Content
\%
More content
\%
Even more content
\%
```

(I've had to escape the percent signs to avoid the blog engine to read them as delimiters.)

So the problem with this (and this is *my* problem) is that I add a sequential ID to every piece of content at generation time for permalink purposes.This means that if I mess up and add a piece of content *above* another, it will get that ID instead.

It's not the biggest problem in the world, but ideally every piece of content would have an immutable ID, ideally a timestamp, but that would complicate the authoring. 

But at that point, you might as well just use a database. There's an inherent limitation in keeping too much metadata in plain-text files.

%
Some people on Hackernews are touting a new "troll-free" app for having "conversations". One featured user is a gentleman in his late 20s, wearing a bowtie and repping an online mag that hosts an article by Curtis Yarvin about El\*n M\*sk and Twitter.

Yeah, I think I'll pass.
%
2022-04-28 Thursday, 28 April 2022

### Announcing my microblog

I've really enjoyed venting on gemini, but mostly because it's really quick and easy to get something "out there". But gemini itself is pretty limiting both in formatting and reach, and the recent Twitter kerfuffle got me interested in hosting my own quick-to-post solution. 

So I googled a bit and found [Tumblelog](https://github.com/john-bokma/tumblelog) by John Bokma, which looked like it would tick the boxes I wanted: 

- static generation
- Markdown 
- Perl 

While I found the general idea great, I didn't need all the bells and whistles, so I ripped out the parts that dealt with HTML generation and shifted that to a Template-based solution.

It's still rough around the edges - I need to figure out a better stylesheet, and I need to add feed support, but so far it's a lot of fun and I hope I can start using it shorter stuff.

*Update 2022-05-05:* feeds and stylesheet added. Source is at [Github](https://github.com/gustafe/microblog). 

%

I wonder if TwElon will restrict the use of 3rd party clients on Twitter. It all depends on if he needs to wring more money out of the site.

%
This microblog project is coming along quite nicely. I've managed to extract my old tweets so I'll backfill this with them.

%
It would be too funny if the Twitter deal fell through and Elon didn't swoop in like the great White hope his awful fans claim him to be.
%

### JSON feed specs

[JSONfeed](https://www.jsonfeed.org/version/1.1/)

[Validation link](https://validator.jsonfeed.org/)

%

So much US history makes more sense when you consider it as a massive reaction against black people. 
%
2022-04-27 Wednesday, 27 April 2022
Watch out NYRB, the substackers are coming for you 

<https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31184290>

%
[I like free speech so much I’ve decided to buy it](https://www.mcsweeneys.net/articles/i-like-free-speech-so-much-ive-decided-to-buy-it?fbclid=IwAR1PxGc3QR_ZfGrRxd-7yKsKn0vdqRFczgFBAbe7bCqLtQmxY1zFebygjSo)
%
2022-04-30 Saturday, 30 April 2022

### A Make trick
The way this blog works is by running a Perl script with a big ole Markdown text as input. I wanted to keep my files logically separate, including the big dump of Tweets I've exported. So I wanted to do the following:

- check all `*.md` files
- if any have been changed, concatenate them all into one file
- run the script on that file

My first attempt looked like this 

```
content.in: *.md
	cat *.md >> content.in
```

But that of course just grew `content.in` every time it was run. I did try a `rm content.in` as a first command, but that felt inelegant. 

With the help of [@gwozniak](https://hackers.town/@GeoffWozniak) in lobste.rs chat, I came up with this instead:

```
content.in: *.md
	cat $^ > $@
```

Nice, simple, and inscrutable. Make at its best.
%
A good analogy to Ockham's Razor is the pseudo-Marxist:

> if something seems illogical, it's that way because it makes people money

For example: content that used to be on blogs is now on YouTube, which is less convenient, harder to search, and generally uses more bandwidth. Why don't people blog anymore? Because they earn more money producing video content. 
%
2022-05-01 Sunday, 01 May 2022

It's been an unusually cool Spring here so it's only today I've shifted from winter/low-temp tires to summer wheels.

Last year I got a hydraulic jack to make it a bit easier. 

It was hard work for all that, but it is Int'l Labor Day, after all. 
%

[In 2013 I went to a Lloyd Cole concert and tweeted about it.](/m/2013/09/index.html#2013-09-24_tweets_02).

%
There needs to be a red flag in unicode/emoji.

> The banner bright, the symbol plain  
  Of human rights and human gain
  
%

### "Fifty Years After the Fair"

[This song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tdnO-kV8h3s) from Aimee Mann's solo debut *Whatever* is really weird. It's an upbeat pop song about the 1939 World's Fair. I don't really know what prompted Mann to write it, but it's pretty unusual for that subject to be covered in popular music.

That said, I really love *Whatever*. There are some great songs, like "4th of July" and "I've Had It", along with another left-field song: "Mr. Harris", about a May-December romance. 

%

## 🤬 Freeze Peach

If you call yourself a "free speech absolutist" in 2022, you're either hopelessly naïve or a dedicated swallower of fascism.

%
