2022-05-30 Monday, 30 May 2022

### A month of microblogging

It's been a month since I whipped up this blog and started using it as a sort of replacement for Twitter and Mastodon.

So far, so good. I'm enjoying being able to structure my posts however I want, using Markdown + HTML, and the freedom of being able to post everything from a single line to an entire essay is liberating.

What's missing is a solution where I don't have to edit the content using a text editor. Some sort of web-based interface, so I can use it from a mobile too. 

%

The situation in Ukraine remains terrible, with continued shelling and rampant human rights abuses, but at least the IANA TZ database has changed the timezone name from Kiev to Kyiv.

Some background: the TZ Info mailing list has had regular messages from Ukrainian activists requesting the change of the timezone Europe/Kiev to Europe/Kyiv. They've referred to Ukrainian law, and in at least one case threatened with criminal prosecution.

The maintainers have consistently replied that they're following the common transliteration used in English-language media, and have also noted that the names within the tzinfo files are to be seen as abstract labels only - applications are supposed to provide correct localizations on top of them.

Now, however, enough English-language media are using Kyiv that the change will be happening soon.

*Update, Fri 01 July 2022:* I was wrong, the sparks are still flying in the mailing list. 

%

#### more anti-metric

[@jjvincent](https://twitter.com/jjvincent/status/1530905776776269824?s=20):

> But the history of anti-metric sentiment is truly wild and pricks many conservative sore spots — from fears over loss of political sovereignty, to a general feeling the world is moving on and left you behind. The tories know what they’re doing with this stuff.

(thread begins [here](https://twitter.com/jjvincent/status/1530902032114229252?s=20).)

Via this story about [the Metric Martyrs](https://davidallengreen.com/2022/05/the-metric-martyrs-case-twenty-years-on/).

%

So Prince Charles is rumored to reign as King George IX? Weird if true. King Charles III too cursed to consider?

%

### Re: "bleh"

Drew DeVault: [bleh](https://drewdevault.com/2022/05/30/bleh.html).

I've taken cheap shots at Drew's communication style before, although I don't have the technical skills to criticize him on his programming.

I have seen him wade in, fists flailing, in a very controversial style, and in a way that I feel is counter-productive to winning friends and influencing people.

That said I have sympathy for his feelings as described in the blog post. I believe is he trying to change. But as can be seen with figures like RMS, Linus and Lennart Poettering, nerds have long memories, and they neither forget nor forgive. 

%
2022-05-31 Tuesday, 31 May 2022

### Love, Death and Robots SE03

I can broadly agree with [this article][lgm] and associated 
[Twitter thread][twitter]. LD&R season 3 is not breaking any new ground, and the trend towards horror isn't something that I really like, personally. 

I'd note that two episodes are based on stories by Neal Asher, whom I happen to appreciate for his British nihilism, but they are very gory and masculine.

Having two episodes where US Special Forces encounter a monster and are slaughtered is one too many, even if one of them is played for laughs. 

On the other hand, it's not really LD&R's job to showcase short SF. It's more a showcase for innovative animation, and SF tropes are a good scaffolding to hang that on.

I'd really love Netflix to showcase more "low-key" stories, that might be more well-served by more traditional episode lengths and live action.

*Update, Mon 06 Jun 2022:*

Michael Swanwick (author of the story behind *The Very Pulse of the Machine*) links to a behind-the-scenes video [here][swanwick].

[lgm]: https://www.lawyersgunsmoneyblog.com/2022/05/love-death-robots-but-no-women
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/NussbaumAbigail/status/1531343854976307201
[swanwick]: http://floggingbabel.blogspot.com/2022/06/the-making-of-very-pulse-of-machine.html
%

I have no clue what Durham/Sussman is about and I suspect it's not worth learning.

%

TIL.

[@Dominus\_Exult][DominusExult]

> This used to be the center pieces of my collection. Rare and expensive old games.
> Now it turns out I‘ve been scammed and sold forgeries by a  well known figure in the Ultima and tetrogames(*sic!*) community. Along with many others

[DominusExult]: https://twitter.com/Dominus_Exult/status/1531169951502979072

%

Looks like I fubared the Atom feed again, sorry!

%
2022-06-01 Wednesday, 01 June 2022

#### \#Swedengate

This is the dumbest thing ever to blow up.

To be fair, this hasn't happened to me as a prospective *guest*, but we've hosted friends of kids many times, and each time we've asked kid or parent whether it's ok if they want to eat dinner. It's common courtesy, if nothing else it prevents unneeded work for the other household.

If everyone is ok with it, we serve food. Simple as that.

People are reaching deep back into so-called history, as if the only way Swedes have from going berserk and killing each other is denying food to kids. This makes very little sense, because in most other social interactions, there's not a big difference between Swedes and other nationalities when it comes to buying dinner, drinks &c. So why is "feeding someone else's child" a special, atavistic remnant from the Viking age? 

To me this sounds more like a viral eruption of the US political factions' love/hate relationship with Sweden.

*Update* this [thread][hanna-friden-swedengate] by Hanna Fridén nails it:

> All the theories trying to explain, in a nice way, why kids sometimes weren't offered dinner in Sweden are WILD.

> The people who say that this only happened to them when they were visiting upper-middle and upper class-households though, they are on the correct track.

[hanna-friden-swedengate]: https://twitter.com/HannaFriden/status/1532434454693695504?s=20

%
2022-06-02 Thursday, 02 June 2022

Rewatching *E.R.*. We're up to season 12, which is noticeably less energetic than the previous ones. 

%

[Paul Campos][lgm-politics-cheese]:

> So what are the classic liberal tastes according to the right wing scream machine? An informal geneology: 

> [...]

> Craft beer. Somebody should write a book about how the transformation of the two classic American drinks of the working and middle classes — coffee and beer — into upscale matters of taste and distinction has all sorts of broader cultural implications. I bet somebody already has but I’m not checking.

[lgm-politics-cheese]: https://www.lawyersgunsmoneyblog.com/2022/06/the-politics-of-cheese-etc

%

#### More wonderful "natural, human scale" measurements

[British thermal unit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_thermal_unit):

> The __British thermal unit__ (__BTU__ or __Btu__) is a unit of heat; it is defined as the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit. [...] The modern SI unit for heat and energy is the joule (J); one BTU equals about 1055&nbsp;J (varying within the range 1054–1060&nbsp;J depending on the specific definition [...])

Mainly Canadian definition, eh:

> 60 °F (15.6 °C) | ≈1,054.68&nbsp;J | Mainly Canadian.<sup>[citation needed]</sup>

NO CONFUSION, VERY LOGICAL:

> The unit __Mbtu__ is used in natural gas and other industries to indicate 1,000 BTUs. However, there is an ambiguity in that the metric system (SI) uses the prefix "M" to indicate one million (1,000,000). Even so, "MMbtu" is often used to indicate one million BTUs particularly in the oil and gas industry.

Totally normal island:

> The Btu should not be confused with the Board of Trade Unit (BTU), an obsolete UK synonym for kilowatt hour (1 kW⋅h or 3,412 Btu).

%
2022-06-03 Friday, 03 June 2022

nerds be like "please take me to Mars daddy Elon but also let me work from home while you do it"

%
2022-06-04 Saturday, 04 June 2022

This [wiki article][curry-mile] skirts the limits of notability but I love it anyway.

[curry-mile]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curry_Mile

%

Wild thread, no idea how accurate it is but it's thought-provoking.

[Kamil Galeev on Dmitry Galkovsky][galkovsky].

[galkovsky]: https://twitter.com/kamilkazani/status/1533133993981272066?s=20

This is just part of the craziness:

> Let's consider one of Galkovsky's key concepts: the Cryptocolony. In 1917 Russia lost its independence and became the  Cryptocolony. Stalin, Brezhnev, Putin, they were all British puppets appointed by and directed from London. Neither of their policies were or are independent

> How did it happen? Well, in 1917 the Russian Empire was close to winning the WWI and getting the immense territorial gains. It would fulfil it's ancient dream of capturing the Istanbul, establishing dominance in Balkans and in Slavic Central Europe. The West wouldn't allow that

> [...]

> Galkovsky argues that while officially the UK and the US are allies in reality they are the most bitter enemies as the only two superpowers in the world. The UK only seems to be weaker, but that's an illusion because Russia, China and others are secretly British cryptocolonies

%
2022-06-05 Sunday, 05 June 2022

#### [Provet av Hesa Fredrik skjuts upp en vecka][hesa-fredrik].

[hesa-fredrik]: https://www.msb.se/sv/aktuellt/nyheter/2022/juni/hesa-fredrik-sander-ljudsignal-mandag-den-13-juni---inte-den-6-juni/

%
[Laurie Penny][long-con]: 

> Every nation-state is ninety percent fictional; there’s always a gap between the imaginary countries united by cultural coherence and collective destinies where most of us believe we live, and the actual countries where we’re born and eat breakfast and file taxes and die. The U.K. is unique among modern states in that we not only buy our own hype, we also sell it overseas at a markup. 

> [...]

> As historian Dan Snow pointed out, “[O]ur future prosperity is dependent on turning ourselves into a giant theme park of Queens, detectives, spies, castles, and young wizards.”

[long-con]: https://longreads.com/2020/06/18/the-long-con-of-britishness/

%
