2022-07-11 Monday, 11 July 2022

Always funny when someone mispells "rogue" as "rouge".

%
2022-07-12 Tuesday, 12 July 2022

Russ Jones (@RussInCheshire), "This Week in Tory".

[Thread starts here][russ-tw-thread-start]

> 2. In a stunning return to form, prognosticator of prognosticators Jacob Rees-Mogg, that disturbing merger between The Child Catcher and the concept of rickets, predicted Boris Johnson would remain as PM for 20 years

> 3. Johnson resigned the same day

[...]

> 77. But to prove they're all completely different to the widely-hated Boris Johnson, every single candidate backs Johnson-era austerity for the poor, tax cuts for the rich, illegally shipping people off to Rwanda, removing your human rights, and trashing international law

[russ-tw-thread-start]: https://twitter.com/RussInCheshire/status/1546522614990004224?s=20

%

### *Spider-Man: No Way Home*

Forgettable. Maybe the next reboot will last more than three movies...

%
2022-07-13 Wednesday, 13 July 2022

It's amusing to see the rabid Fusk fans who howled with glee at the prospect of their daddy using his iron fist to enforce "free speech" on Twitter now yelp in indignation at the suggestion he should actually honor the contract he signed.

%
2022-07-15 Friday, 15 July 2022

### TIL: Chinese numerals

Wikipedia: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_numerals>

> There are two sets of characters for Chinese numerals: one for everyday writing, known as xiǎoxiě (traditional Chinese: 小寫; simplified Chinese: 小写; lit. 'small writing'), and one for use in commercial, accounting or financial contexts, known as dàxiě (traditional Chinese: 大寫; simplified Chinese: 大写; lit. 'big writing'). The latter arose because the characters used for writing numerals are geometrically simple, so simply using those numerals cannot prevent forgeries in the same way spelling numbers out in English would. A forger could easily change the everyday characters 三十 (30) to 五千 (5000) just by adding a few strokes. That would not be possible when writing using the financial characters 參拾 (30) and 伍仟 (5000).

Origin: this [lobste.rs submission][lo-chi-num] which points to a [mini-essay][gh-chi-num] published in a GitHub issues.

[lo-chi-num]: https://lobste.rs/s/sejbag/chinese_numerals_char_is_numeric
[gh-chi-num]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/84056#issuecomment-1184725924

%

[Tim Bray](https://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/202x/2022/07/13/Weird-ML#p-4):

> And remember, the ML model is never on your side; its primary agenda is the agenda of whoever paid to have it built.

%

#### The Digital Typewriter and the Unnecessarily Costly Pursuit of Focus -- or -- The Astrohaus Freewrite and the Unquestionably Awful Predicament of Romanticizing the Typewriter

[someone's not happy][freewrite]

> Next, you need to be a writer (or at least aspire to write). Why is that not first? Well, think about it: everybody wants to write the great American novel, but not many will put in the work. In my opinion, aspirational writers must be driving Freewrite sales because most working writers don't have time to deal with the bullshit functionality of the device.

> So the audience of the Freewrite narrows from: Disposable Income > Aspirational Writers > Assholes who Romanticize Old School Typewriters.



[freewrite]: https://www.emergencycreative.com/blog/the-digital-typewriter-and-the-unnecessarily-costly-pursuit-of-focus

%
2022-07-16 Saturday, 16 July 2022

Kinda funny that Polestar is running ads mocking Tesla/Felon.

> No greenwashing  
> No conquering Mars  
> No compromises  
  
> No. 2 Polestar

It's obvious that Polestar believes there's a big market of people who want an electric car but don't want to drive an ad for Fusk.

%
2022-07-17 Sunday, 17 July 2022

#### Just random HN fascism

comment:

> What is more interesting is whether we can identify cases where clear civilisational collapse was *arrested* or *reversed* by change of strategy by the leadership of that civilisation.[...]

reply:

> Weimar Germany

%
