2022-10-17 Monday, 17 October 2022

Ye (the artist formerly known as Kanye West) is planning to buy Parler, which sounds crazy until you realize that Candace Owen's husband is Parler's CEO.

The grift never ends. 

%
2022-10-18 Tuesday, 18 October 2022

Nerds sowing DALL-E, Stable Diffusion etc: 

> Haha fuck yeah!!! Yes!! Artists have always been inspired by others! Git gud and learn to massage the prompt!

Nerds reaping Github Copilot:

> Well this fucking sucks. What the fuck. This emitted code does not conform to every jot and tittle of license I am using. I'm suing!

%

#### Jack Werner om Rebecka Fallenkvist och Anne Frank: [Gränsen som tydligen inte gick här][werner-fallenkvist]

[werner-fallenkvist]: https://kwasbeb.se/2022/10/18/gransen-som-tydligen-inte-gick-har/

%
2022-10-21 Friday, 21 October 2022

Press reports say that Twitter's workforce will be more than decimated whether or not Fusk takes over. Either 25% (current leadership) or 75% (Felon). Don't expect Trust & Safety teams to be retained. 

%
2022-10-22 Saturday, 22 October 2022

#### [In defence of the indefensible][christy-ussher]

[christy-ussher]: https://thonyc.wordpress.com/2009/10/25/in-defence-of-the-indefensible/

> Friday was the 23rd of October [2009] and the Internet sceptics had a field day mocking one of their favourite punching bags James Ussher (1581 – 1656) Archbishop of Armagh. Ussher is notorious for dating the creation of the world to 6 pm on the 22nd of October 4004 BCE (and not 9 am on 23rd October as Pharyngula falsely stated) a fact that the hordes of Pharyngula and other similar self appointed defenders of scientism love to brandish as a proof of the stupidity of Christians.

> For various reasons Ussher chose the autumnal equinox and placed the moment of creation on the beginning of the Sunday preceding the 4004 BC equinox, 25th October, that he had determined using Kepler’s Rudolphine Tables. He chose the Sunday as the first day of creation because the Bible says that the creation took six days and God rested on the seventh, which is the Jewish Sabbath, the Saturday. The point of creation is 6pm on Saturday the 22nd October because in the Jewish calendar the new day starts at 6 pm. All of this is within the social and cultural norms of his times perfectly sensible and rational and only appears idiotic when viewed from our perspective. Ussher was not the fool that he is presented as being by the modern sceptics but a highly regarded scholar of his times.

%

#### [Collections: Strategic Airpower 101][acoup-strategic]

[acoup-strategic]: https://acoup.blog/2022/10/21/collections-strategic-airpower-101/#easy-footnote-11-15716

%
2022-10-23 Sunday, 23 October 2022

#### [På huvudbloggen: Mest normala valdistrikt](https://gerikson.com/blog/alt/politics/Mest-normala-partidistrikt.html)

%

#### [20/20](https://www.dn.se/ekonomi/hogskoleprovet-orddelen-ht-2022/)

%
