2022-05-01 Sunday, 01 May 2022
It's been an unusually cool Spring here so it's only today I've shifted from winter/low-temp tyres to summer wheels.

Last year I got a hydraulic jack to make it a bit easier. 

It was hard work for all that, but it is Int'l Labor Day, after all. 
%

[In 2013 I went to a Lloyd Cole concert and tweeted about it.](https://gerikson.com/m/2013-09.html#2013-09-24)

%
There needs to be a red flag in unicode/emoji.

> The banner bright, the symbol plain  
  Of human rights and human gain
  
%

### "Fifty Years After the Fair"

[This song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tdnO-kV8h3s) from Aimee Mann's solo debut *Whatever* is really weird. It's an upbeat pop song about the 1939 World's Fair. I don't really know what prompted Mann to write it, but it's pretty unusual for that subject to be covered in popular music.

That said, I really love *Whatever*. There are some great songs, like "4th of July" and "I've Had It", along with another left-field song: "Mr. Harris", about a May-December romance. 

%
2022-05-02 Monday, 02 May 2022

Muted the terms "Elon" and "Musk" on Twitter. 

%

### Blog todo

- <strike>refactor to add all calls to Template rendering to one location</strike>
- <strike>move to a YYYY/MM folder structure</strike>
- <strike>better "created time" for JSONfeed</strike>

%

### Natofrågan

Jag är kluven i frågan om Sverige ska ansluta sig till NATO. Men jag tycker att det är viktigt att Sverige har ett starkt och avskräckande försvar. Om ett NATO-medlemskap är det som krävs för att det ska vara fallet så kanske det är bäst ändå.

%

### "We need to intubate!"

I wonder if there's any episode of "E.R." where they *don't* intubate someone.

(in this episode, they intubate __two__ people.)

%

### Test inline HTML

<table border=1>
<tr><th>One</th><th>Two</th></tr>
<tr><td>Three</td><td>Four</td></tr>
</table>

%
2022-05-03 Tuesday, 03 May 2022

Well today could have started better.
%

### Russian fascism mask off

> Welp, looks like Russia wants a fight with Israel. Russian Foreign Ministry says that Israel "supports the neo-Nazi regime in Kyiv" and that Lapid saying "“The Jews did not murder themselves in the Holocaust" is "anti-historical."

[@LahavHarkov](https://twitter.com/LahavHarkov/status/1521398363631108096)

[Jerusalem Post: Russia claims Israel supports neo-Nazis in Ukraine after Lavrov-Hitler flap](https://www.jpost.com/israel-news/article-705747)

%
