2022-12-26 Monday, 26 December 2022

Merry War, Christmas is over.

%
2022-12-27 Tuesday, 27 December 2022

I'm sure Medvedev is thrilled that his 3rd-hand channeling of Houston Stewart Chamberlain found an enthusiastic booster in Felon Husk. 

%
2022-12-28 Wednesday, 28 December 2022

Back when Twelon tweeted out his "peace plan for Ukraine", people dunked on him for mentioning that Crimea should be retained by Russia, with "water rights ensured". This was singled out as a Kremlin talking point, which it no doubt is, but it's also a geographical fact that anyone who's done a little reading about the area and its history knows. I think Flusk included it primarily to seem smart and well-read, rather than blindly echoing Russian views. 

%
2022-12-29 Thursday, 29 December 2022

### ðŸ¦ Robert Farley: I am a realist

> I am a Realist, and as a Realist I think it's important to acknowledge that if we just gave Russia the permanent right to invade any of its neighbors anytime it sees fit then these disruptive wars would be unnecessary.

> As a Realist I feel this is a very realistic opinion.

> Also as a Realist it is important for me to point out that your moral outrage at Russia's tendency to invade its neighbors is entirely inappropriate.  My moral outrage about NATO expansion, however, is extremely Realistic and therefore appropriate.

> Also as a Realist I am obligated to point out that international organizations such as NATO are pointless and irrelevant and also the greatest possible threat to peace and stability in the history of human social interaction.  I know this because I am extremely Realistic.

> Finally, as a Realist I wish you would acknowledge that proxy war as a tool of statecraft is entirely without precedent in the history of international relations until it was invented by dastardly, unrealistic liberals in early 2022.

([thread begins here](https://twitter.com/drfarls/status/1608470901628014593)

%
2022-12-30 Friday, 30 December 2022

kill 9 them all, init 1 will know its own

%
