2022-11-07 Monday, 07 November 2022

Some big names following me on Mastodon, I am honored (ok I know it's because they're using a service to follow people from Twitter but it's still cool alright??)

For context I mostly write here and it's posted to my fedi account. You can get the whole experience directly (and faster!) using [one of the feeds](https://gerikson.com/m/subscribe.html).

%

Same dude who wanted Ukraine to give Russia everything it wanted is now saying parody isn't protected speech, and like insecure nerds everywhere, citing Wikipedia. 

%

So if you pay for your $8/mo blue checkmark on Twitter, you're not allowed to change your handle at all on pains of suspension? I've never done it but changing your handle is a thing a lot of people do on Twitter to respond to current events, make jokes etc. If you're a paid user you get less functionality. 

%

*nopost*

> Now, Twitter is like a Tesla on autopilot going after pedestrians at random.

--[Slate interview with Manu Saadia](https://slate.com/technology/2022/11/elon-musk-twitter-impersonators-suspended-manu-saadia-trekonomics.html)

%

#### [David Golumbia: Fascism, Free Speech, and Musk’s Twitter][dgolumbia-twitter]

> When fascism talks about “free speech,” that has to be understood in the context of its fundamental commitment to “us” and “them.” Free speech, to the fascist, applies only to *us*. *We* must be allowed to say anything we want, without consequence. *We* get free speech, in the most ordinary sense of free speech. 

> When it comes to speech, this means that fascists often seem to think that fascists can say anything, and *non-fascists have to listen to them*.

> [...] Musk bought Twitter because he honestly believes that free speech means everyone else has to listen to and accept the torrents of racism and antisemitism his supporters have unleashed in celebration of his purchase of Twitter. We are less real than they are. We need to sit there and take it. That’s “free speech.”

[dgolumbia-twitter]: https://davidgolumbia.medium.com/fascism-free-speech-and-musks-twitter-4029f2400a43

%

Imagine if Google just reactivated Google+, sucked the air right out of Fedi... dump your Twitter backup into it and it would recreate your graph automagically. G+ had its good sides, the realnames crap was not it, but they'd be a credible alternative to Twitter now. 

%

The irony of HN complaining that the fediverse is "hard to use"... every bubble has its blind spots. I don't think the fediverse will absorb every Twitter refugee but the very fact it exists means that Fusk's walled garden is full of secret escape routes.

%

Prigozhin really has that Evil Villain look down cold.

%

Kinda hit a wall in with my second Elden Ring character. Replaying the game reminds you that some bosses and dungeons aren't that fun, even with a new build. Also I'm stuck in the final bossfight with my first character's second journey and it's frustrating.

I just want to get the frenzied flame ending (1st character) and the Ranni ending (current character). Maybe time to take a break.

%
2022-11-08 Tuesday, 08 November 2022

"Fusk considers putting Twitter behind a paywall" - man, the parallels to Freenode are just getting more and more apparent.

%

Got my work computer back after a defective screen fried it via USB-C and of course I now have to reinstall *everything*. 

%
