2022-07-04 Monday, 04 July 2022

It bugs me no end that `0` is a false value in C, Perl, PHP etc. but a succesful exit code in Unix is `0` and not some "true" value. 

%

My humor has been described as xeric.

Q: what do you call a thirsty priest?  
A: a xeric cleric.

%

Thinking of writing an extremely dyspeptic diatribe on why decentralization is a useless shibboleth but don't really have the energy. 

Maybe I should farm it out.

%
2022-07-05 Tuesday, 05 July 2022

### The term "gilded age" is pejorative

I happened to listen to a podcast where someone remarked that a recent development was good, and we were living in a "gilded age" of said circumstance. However, the term is pejorative - it refers to the process of gilding, where a very thin layer of gold is placed on base metal, thus making it seem more valuable than it actually is. 

From [el WP][wp-gilded-age-name]:

> The Gilded Age, the term for the period of economic boom which began after the American Civil War and ended at the turn of the century was applied to the era by historians in the 1920s, who took the term from one of Mark Twain's lesser-known novels, *The Gilded Age: A Tale of Today (1873)*. The book [...] satirized the promised "golden age" after the Civil War, portrayed as an era of serious social problems masked by a thin gold gilding of economic expansion.

Now you know.

[wp-gilded-age-name]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gilded_Age#The_name_and_the_era

%
2022-07-06 Wednesday, 06 July 2022

```
< varjag> british politics is byzantine af
< varjag> it's like one of those board games in which the author clearly 
          invested too much effort
```				
%

### *Thor: Love and Thunder*

The kid and I saw this this evening. Not too bad, the Thor part of the MCU franchise has increasingly leaned into the more humorous area for a while. Helmsworth is excellent as the hunky god with the heart of gold. 

I did not recognize Christian Bale as the Big Bad (an excellent choice, btw), and definitely did not recognize Russel Crowe hilariously sending up his *Gladiator* persona as a chonky irascible Zeus. 

*Update* reading up on the backstory of [Gorr the God-Butcher][gorr], I find this hilarious (for Swedes) passage:

> The first symbiote, All-Black, is an ancient amorphous weapon originating from the evil Knull.

[gorr]: https://www.marvel.com/characters/gorr-the-god-butcher/in-comics

%
2022-07-07 Thursday, 07 July 2022

### *Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness*

Figured I'd catch up on this one. The Sam Raimi aesthetic (complete with obligatory Bruce Campbell cameo) is a refreshing twist on the candy-colored MCU, but the plot barely holds together. It's also funny to see how the MCU is slowly edging up against the parody phrase "the fate of this universe--and an infinity of other universes--is at stake!"

%

It's Thursday, and the internet's worst people are in a tizzy about the Georgia Guidestones being attacked and demolished, and Lennart Poettering getting a job.

%
2022-07-08 Friday, 08 July 2022

Hackernews is still down but the API is up and it's really doing good things for my new [queue][hnlo-queue].

[hnlo-queue]: https://gerikson.com/hnlo/queue.html

%

Well sure Gavin, imagine your beloved HN will win now it's down for the second time today. 

#### [lobste.rs Will Become an Echo Chamber](https://gavinhoward.com/2022/07/lobste.rs-will-become-an-echo-chamber/)

BTW if kicking transphobes and fascists out leads to an echo chamber, it's an echo chamber in which I want to stay.

%

### Melon Husk chokes

There will not be a deal. Maybe I will hie my sorry ass over to the birdsite again now.

Between this, Abe getting assassinated,  and HN being down it's been a tough day for alt-right dudes all over the world. Hopefully the trend continues. 

%
2022-07-09 Saturday, 09 July 2022

### Salt tax

I was aware of the [*gabelle* in France][gabelle], but did not know about the [salt tax in China][st-china] or in [British India][st-india]. 

I guess that salt is a popular commodity for taxation because it's essential for food preparation, relatively compact, and doesn't spoil. And the production areas are relatively easy to control. 

The *gabelle* in particular was crazy, and cited as a proximate cause of the Revolution.

> In 1773, along the Loire River, which separated the regions of Brittany and Anjou, with respective salt prices of 31 sous and 591 sous, over 3000 soldiers were stationed in response to the massive amounts of smuggling that took place.

[gabelle]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gabelle
[st-china]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salt_Commission
[st-india]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_salt_tax_in_British_India

%

UK crime shows usually have really negative depictions of defense lawyers and journalists. I wonder if it's a general hard-line law-and-order attitude that criminals shouldn't get off using smart counsel or something else. 

UK press does seem to pretty shite though.

%
