2023-03-13 Monday, 13 March 2023

Silicon Valley VCs today, after a weekend literally freaking out on Twitter and then being rescued by the Fed: "our destruction of Silicon Valley Bank was good actually".

%
2023-03-14 Tuesday, 14 March 2023

#### [🔗 The Russia That Might Have Been](https://www.foreignaffairs.com/ukraine/russia-might-have-been?utm_source=twitter_posts&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=tw_daily_soc)

%
2023-03-15 Wednesday, 15 March 2023

*nopost* 

Just some `CSS` noodling, `please disregard` this message.

    This section is formatted as monospace.
	
%

Sub-blogging again because I really don't want to add a pile of sodden creosote-impregnated lumber and strawmen to a raging dumpster fire over on the crustacean site--

nerds are always writing about the loss of the small personal website, how they're all replaced by social media silos, how important it is to revive that ecosystem[1].

And yet there are other nerds who are very interested in GATEKEEPING those few sites that exist. You have to implement <span style="font-variant: small-caps;">dark mode</span>. You cannot use any number of labor-saving technologies, from Javascript to web fonts, for reasons of ideological purity, or saving resources, or both. 

Imagine the reaction if you've lovingly handcrafted a site you like, maybe spent hours researching best practices and learning about web design and CSS, and you're ATTACKED by some rando with a GNU-shaped axe to grind. 

No wonder people choose Facebook.

--- 

<!-- vktlcr -->

[1] never as big or important as they remember or have read about, but that's not important

%

Some people still see Andrew Mellon as someone worthy of emulation, rather than the one who got the Great Depression fabulously wrong:

#### [🔗 Hedge fund billionaire Ken Griffin says US should have let SVB die](https://protos.com/hedge-fund-billionaire-ken-griffin-says-us-should-have-let-svb-die/)

> “The US is supposed to be a capitalist economy, and that’s breaking down before our eyes,” [Griffin] told FT.

> “There’s been a loss of financial discipline with the government bailing out depositors in full.”

It's been a tough couple of years for libertarians, first collective action was what saved societies from COVID, then they had to run to Momma Yellen for help after they tweeted a bank run. 

%

#### [🔗&#x1F1F3;&#x1F1F4; Flere feil om norsk innblanding i Nord Stream-sabotasjen](https://journalisten.no/faktiskno-faktasjekker-seymour-hersh/563656)

%

#### [🔗 Modern Font Stacks](https://modernfontstacks.com/)

Great resource for quickly choosing a font style that looks similar across devices. Changed the CSS for this site based on it.

%
2023-03-16 Thursday, 16 March 2023

#### [🔗 History’s Fool: The long century of Ernst Jünger](https://harpers.org/archive/2023/03/historys-fool-ernst-junger/)

%

### &#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; mysterie löst

Varför heter kryddpeppar *allehånde* på danska? Därför att det är en översättning/*calque* av engelskans *allspice*.

%
2023-03-17 Friday, 17 March 2023

#### [🔗🖥️ Something Pretty Right: The History and Legacy of Visual Basic](https://retool.com/visual-basic/)

%

### A coffee lifehack

I enjoy coffee but am not fanatic about it. My wife wants really strong coffee and lots of it. So we use a French press which makes it both strong and plentiful. We use an electric kettle to boil the water. 

Because I enjoy milk in my coffee but also want hot coffee, since time out of mind I have been warming a half cup of milk in a microwave for 30s. I call this "kaffe olle", a play on the Swedish ad campaign for *café au lait* in the late 80s which was bankrolled by the dairy producers. 

This Spring we ordered a new fancy microwave, and a relative moved and needed a microwave. So they got our old one. However the delivery of the new one was delayed, so I was faced with a week without a (convenient) way to warm my milk. Bummer.

On the same day we were to take delivery of the new microwave, I realized I could use a small amount of leftover hot water to pour into a small bowl, in which I had placed my cup with milk. So while waiting for the coffee in the French press to steep to completion, the milk was warmed by the water that had been used for the coffee. 

I can't believe I didn't figure this out before.

---

(it's not perfect, the cup does get wet on the outside, but it's easy to dry off before drinking.)

%

seriously considering filtering out the `ai` tag on the Seafood Site

%
2023-03-18 Saturday, 18 March 2023

Darkly comedic to see Western Russia-friendly alt-media not realize that the attempt to use Seymour Hersh as a cutout for the Kremlin narrative on the Nord Stream sabotage is now old news -- it's time to get on the elite Ukrainian SEAL team train! They're still mad no-one is following up on Hersh's crazy story. 

They're still wedded to the idea of Truth -- something Russian propaganda has give up on long ago. There's no Truth, there's only Stories, and there are Stories for all sorts of audiences. As long as they point to Russia's enemies, they are useful. 

%
2023-03-19 Sunday, 19 March 2023

#### [🔗💸 How Everyone Is Getting The Story Of Silicon Valley and Signature Bank Completely Wrong](https://cryptadamus.substack.com/p/how-everyone-got-the-story-of-silicon)

%
