2023-07-17 Monday, 17 July 2023

### LWers ask: "Why was the AI Alignment community so unprepared for this moment?"

Quoting [this reply by @swabr](https://awful.systems/u/swlabr) in full, because lemmy's permalinks don't really work.

---

> Why did the Alignment community not prepare tools and plans for convincing the wider infosphere about AI safety years in advance?

Did you not read HPMOR, the greatest story ever reluctantly told to reach the wider infosphere about rationalism and, by extension, AI alignment????

> Why were there no battle plans in the basement of the pentagon that were written for this exact moment?

It's almost like AGI isn't a credible threat!

> Heck, 20+ years is enough time to educate, train, hire and surgically insert an entire generation of people into key positions in the policy arena specifically to accomplish this one goal like sleeper cell agents. Likely much, much, easier than training highly qualified alignment researchers.

At MIRI, we don't do things because they are easy. We don't do things because we are grifters.

> Didn't we pretty much always know it was going to come from one or a few giant companies or research labs? Didn't we understand how those systems function in the real world? Capitalist incentives, Moats, Regulatory Capture, Mundane utility, and International Coordination problems are not new.

This is how they look at all other problems in the world, and it's fucking exasperating. Climate change? I would simply implement 'Capitalist Incentives'. Wealth inequality? Have you tried a 'Moat'? Racism? It sounds like a job for 'Regulatory Capture'. Yes, all problems are easily solvable with 200 IQ and buzzwords. All problems except the hardest problem in the world, preventing Skynet from being invented. Ignore all those other problems; someone will 'Mundane Utility' them away. For now, we need your tithe; we're definitely going to use it for 'International Coordination', by which I totally don't mean buying piles of meth and cocaine for our orgies.

> Why was it not obvious back then? Why did we not do this? Was this done and I missed it?

We tried nothing and we're all out of ideas!

%

#### [🔗 Love’s Work: Lucy Jakub on the works of Hayao Miyazaki](https://www.nybooks.com/online/2023/07/13/loves-work-hayao-miyazaki/)

%

TIL I learned an Oz 🇦🇺 tablespoon is 20ml, instead of 14.8-15ml like in the rest of the world. 🤯

--[🆆Tablespoon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tablespoon)

%
2023-07-19 Wednesday, 19 July 2023

Wish I'd screenshotted the HN who misread Ursula K. LeGuin's memory of interacting with Philip K. Dick as "disrespect" and vowed to stop consuming more of her "content". 

Here's the blogspam item that was discussed: [When Ursula K. Le Guin & Philip K. Dick Went to High School Together](https://www.openculture.com/2016/12/when-ursula-k-le-guin-philip-k-dick-went-to-high-school-together.html).

%

This is a heartwarming story about *a man and his dog* rescued after 3 months drifting at sea, but if you have the slightest interest in SF you gotta wonder if there wasn't another human or 2 on the boat when they set off.

#### [🔗&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; Australiensisk man och hans hund räddade efter månader på havet](https://www.svt.se/nyheter/utrikes/man-och-hans-hund-raddade-efter-manader-pa-havet)

%
2023-07-20 Thursday, 20 July 2023

The fediverse is great because it allows communities to forge their own paths, free of corporate overlords. However, these overlords are replaced by *småpåvar*<sup>1</sup> who are very eager to tell you you're not running your piece of the fediverse in the Right Way&trade;. 

Fuck 'em.

--- 
<sup>1</sup> transl. "little popes"

%
2023-07-21 Friday, 21 July 2023

Video submissions to lobste.rs have always been a bit of a pain, but they're made even more insufferable now when half a dozen competing LLM summarizing "solutions" appear in the comments.

%
2023-07-23 Sunday, 23 July 2023

I'm on record describing substack as a toxic brand but the people who performatively complain about its subscription popup and use of JS are grinding my gears even harder. Don't make me root for the fascist enabling network ffs.

%
