2023-10-09 Monday,  9 October 2023

Blogger: I finally got my C programming environment set up just the way I like it.  
Internet: here are all the footguns you have missed.

%

If you're into WW2 and podcasts, you could do worse than following "We Have Ways of Making You Talk" (link follows). Very UK-centric, but ranges widely, and at least the hosts are *aware* of how little they know about other areas and make attempts at correcting that.

#### [🔗📻 We Have Ways of Making You Talk Podcast](https://wehavewayspod.com/)

%
2023-10-10 Tuesday, 10 October 2023

#### [🔗 David Chisnall succinctly describes the differences in how FreeBSD and Linux distros handle "3rd party" code](https://lobste.rs/s/o8d0ez/why_is_debian_way_it_is#c_lwwoee) 

Basically, in Linux-land, *everything* is 3rd party, even the kernel.

%
2023-10-12 Thursday, 12 October 2023

CW: rant.

I'd have thought that the hipsters who sneer at Mastodon for being too mainstream would also transitively sneer at people using Wordpress. So I don't get the angst that WP's coming ActivityPub integration is focused on Masto support.

Maybe if a large part of your online personality is gatekeeping and purity tests, don't be surprised if real companies decide it's not worth spending resources catering to you.

%

Today in lobste.rs, I am informed that the Raspberry Pi is not suitable for production use because it's not recommended to install the latest OS in place - a reinstall is required. I note this without further comment. 

%
