2023-09-04 Monday,  4 September 2023

### adventures in anchoring

Part of the design of this blog is having a flow of posts, ordered by month. Within each month there are days, and there can be multiple entries per day. As the ideal is that a post can be just a sentence, or a word, having the traditional format of one page == one post, surrounded by a ton of side fluff like titles, navigation etc. felt excessive.

So the model is one big page, with entries identified by HTML anchors. 

The anchor targets (`id`) were originally part of the `<article>` element, which makes semantic sense. However, these anchors don't work in text mode browser (specifically `w3m`). 

I stumbled upon the W3C validator, and it stated that an article element has to have a title. In a fit of pique I added a semantically null empty `<h3>` element, and attached the anchor to it. This turns out to enable nav in w3m. but added a lot of extra whitespace. 

In the end I figured I didn't want to have an empty h3 tag so I replaced it with a `<p>` with an anchor. This seems to work ok so I'll go with it from now.

%
2023-09-05 Tuesday,  5 September 2023

#### [🔗🚀📚 I re-read William Gibson 5 years ago and blogged about it](https://gerikson.com/blog/books/read/Trilogy-of-Trilogies.html)

%
2023-09-06 Wednesday,  6 September 2023

Struck by the cognitive dissonance of lobste.rs, on the one hand people are demanding they be able to root their phones to resurrect old hardware, on the other they are raging against a proposed EU regulation that would enforce software updates for older devices. 

%
2023-09-07 Thursday,  7 September 2023

> Much like orthodox Marxism-Leninism, the Austrian School describes economics by how it should be, not how it actually is.

-- [me](https://lobste.rs/s/kl46df/new_eu_rules_smartphones_tablets_will#c_us28pz)

%

Link aggregator site freakout after Mozilla discovers that EULAs for cars are a privacy nightmare. Dudes, you're rolling around in a highly visible chunk of metal with a unique, machine-readable identifier, and you're legally required to be an insured party to operate it. Your privacy is already in tatters.

%

### car worship, an anecdote

At my first year at uni in the early 90s, we had a course in the "History of Science and Technology", which was pass/fail, and you just had to attend a certain number of lectures. I found it quite interesting but most of my fellow students were there for the engineering courses and didn't really like the softer side of the course.

One day, the lecturer made the mistake of stating what is now obvious, that increasing the number of lanes on a highway does not reduce congestion in the medium term - it just increases traffic. Stockholm was in the throes of a debate regarding a road traffic expansion project, and many of my fellow students were from the more affluent suburbs that this project was meant to serve.

Man, if people were sleepy before, they weren't now. Spotty kids just out of high school and who probably didn't have a driver's license could vehemently recite the pro-highway arguments down the smallest talking point. Any restrictions in the free flow of automobiles was seen as rank heresy. And we weren't even studying civil engineering, so where they'd picked up the prediliction of hugging cement (*betongkramare*) was beyond me.

Anyway, just thought about that for some reason. ⛐

%

#### [🔗🆆 Carian language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carian_language)

%
2023-09-08 Friday,  8 September 2023

No wonder the US will never get the metric system as nerds believe "kilo-" means 1,024 bytes... 

%
