2023-04-25 Tuesday, 25 April 2023

Tucker out. US Trumpian fever breaking? Somehow doubt it.

%
2023-04-27 Thursday, 27 April 2023

#### [🔗🇩🇰 Forsvaret bekræfter: Rusland havde specialfartøj nær Nord Streams sprængningspunkt](https://www.information.dk/indland/2023/04/forsvaret-bekraefter-rusland-specialfartoej-naer-nord-streams-spraengningspunkt)

%
2023-04-28 Friday, 28 April 2023

### One year of microblogging

This blog [was launched a year ago][launched]. Since then, I've published 673 entries. It's replaced Twitter for me, and even if I miss the instant engagement Twitter gave it's worth leaving the sinking muskrat ship.

I really enjoy being able to write everything from a word to an essay, with Markdown support.

What I do miss most is good mobile posting. I'll look into that going forward.

[launched]: https://gerikson.com/m/2022/04/index.html#2022-04-28_thursday

%

#### [🔗🔊 The ATP podcast hosts discuss modern "portable" cameras](https://overcast.fm/+R7DVTOMkI/1:00:49)

Ricoh GR IIIx, Fuji X100V, and Fuji X-T5 -- all of these are new to me.

Interesting thing is that Arment was into fixed-focals, specifically 40mm-e, which I like as well. Pros for the image quality, cons for portability, and __big__ drawbacks regarding integration with anything other than a computer with an editing program. 

%

#### [🔗📷 Dante Stella: Dear God, the film base is gray](https://themachineplanet.wordpress.com/2023/04/25/dear-god-the-film-base-is-gray/)

%

Weirdly enough, the news that a Russian submarine support vessel was observed near the Nord Stream blast sites four days before the incidents has failed to set Hackernews ablaze. 

%
2023-04-29 Saturday, 29 April 2023

#### [🔗🎵 Lloyd Cole And The Commotions Reviewed!](https://www.mojo4music.com/articles/new-music/lloyd-cole-and-the-commotions-reviewed/)

%
2023-04-30 Sunday, 30 April 2023 (Walpurgis Night)

Personally I feel science fiction is off-topic on Lobste.rs so I'm posting my views here.

This is a proposed reply to [this comment](https://lobste.rs/s/ssoxoi/five_worlds_ai#c_mh7nnk), which I actually find reasonable.

--- 

"How to be a good human" has been an open question since the dawn of civilization. Many systems have been proposed, none have become universal. 

The current crop of AI doomsters are a good example of the old joke that for some people it's easier to imagine the end of the world than imagine the end of capitalism. The vision they espouse (Bostrom) is of an endless expansion into the universe, converting all matter into substrates for running simulations of quadrillion upon qaudrillions of humans doing -- what? Shopping, I guess. Oh, and fucking.

One can only imagine their horror if the provably benevolent AI overlord decrees that the best way to preserve humanity is to reduce the population to, say, 10 million globally and ensure this population lives in harmony with the biosphere until the sun becomes a red giant. Or if the way to reach the stars is simply Communism. After all, the signals provided by the Market can trivially be simulated by a superintelligent AI, who will decree who works with what and how much their labor is worth. Any opposition to the Grand Project of Mankind Reaching the Stars will be dispassionately eliminated.

In both these cases AI has preserved humanity, but at an intolerable cost to the right-libertarians currently cosplaying as humanity's saviors. 

%
