2023-12-04 Monday,  4 December 2023

That feeling when you get the right answer to the example input, then just switch to the real input and the answer is correct there too... that feeling \#adventofcode

%

The face at servicedesk when you report the anti-phishing training email as attempted phishing

%
2023-12-05 Tuesday,  5 December 2023

when your code gets your process killed, maybe don't run \#adventofcode on a $5 VPS

%

Only 1 star today, life handed me a sack of rancid lemons. \#adventofcode

%
2023-12-06 Wednesday,  6 December 2023

LOL, Google's "AI" crap is called Gemini, adding that name to an already overloaded list. The gemini smolweb project will be especially pissed.

%

游닠 "Rescue Me" is a good show but it kinda goes off the rails in S04.

%
2023-12-07 Thursday,  7 December 2023

### Advent of Code 2023: one week in

The consensus online seems to be that the 2023 edition of Advent of Code is harder than previous years. Does the data bear this out? 

This table shows the leaderboard completion times[1] for the years 2020 to 2023. I chose 2020 as a cutoff as 2019 was a bit of an outlier (it was the year of `intcode`, where a custom language was used in many problems), and I believe that AoC really became nerd mainstream in 2020.

The shortest and longest completion times are marked in green and orange.

*Saturdays* and <u>Sundays</u> are denoted in italic and underline, respectively. These days are often when more difficult problems are posted.

Studying this table, we can only see one outlier: 2023D05. At 26m37s it's almost twice as difficult as any other problem before 2023. 

In other words, the evidence does not bear out the hypothesis that the first 7 days of AoC 2023 is uniquely difficult.

If you want to do your own analysis, you can use the commands [here](https://github.com/gustafe/aoc2023/blob/main/get-time-stats.md) or download the data (up to 2022) [here](https://github.com/gustafe/aoc2023/blob/main/AoC-leaderboard-times-2015-2022.txt). 

<style type="text/css">
.tg  {border-collapse:collapse;border-spacing:0;}
.tg td{border-color:black;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;
  overflow:hidden;padding:10px 5px;word-break:normal;}
.tg th{border-color:black;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;
  font-weight:normal;overflow:hidden;padding:10px 5px;word-break:normal;}
.tg .tg-hd4b{background-color:#ffffff;border-color:inherit;color:#333333;font-family:"Lucida Console", Monaco, monospace !important;
  font-weight:bold;text-align:right;text-decoration:underline;vertical-align:top}
.tg .tg-jpg1{background-color:#67fd9a;border-color:inherit;font-family:"Lucida Console", Monaco, monospace !important;
  text-align:right;vertical-align:top}
.tg .tg-c3ow{border-color:inherit;text-align:center;vertical-align:top}
.tg .tg-3dm3{border-color:inherit;font-family:inherit;text-align:center;vertical-align:top}
.tg .tg-t55k{border-color:inherit;font-family:inherit;font-weight:bold;text-align:left;vertical-align:top}
.tg .tg-359v{background-color:#fe996b;border-color:inherit;font-family:"Lucida Console", Monaco, monospace !important;
  text-align:right;vertical-align:top}
.tg .tg-fvx9{border-color:inherit;font-family:"Lucida Console", Monaco, monospace !important;text-align:right;vertical-align:top}
.tg .tg-fyev{background-color:#ffffff;border-color:inherit;font-family:"Lucida Console", Monaco, monospace !important;
  font-style:italic;text-align:right;vertical-align:top}
.tg .tg-jd9p{background-color:#fe996b;border-color:inherit;font-family:"Lucida Console", Monaco, monospace !important;
  text-align:right;text-decoration:underline;vertical-align:top}
.tg .tg-wijt{background-color:#67fd9a;border-color:inherit;font-family:"Lucida Console", Monaco, monospace !important;
  text-align:right;text-decoration:underline;vertical-align:top}
.tg .tg-fske{background-color:#67fd9a;border-color:inherit;font-family:"Lucida Console", Monaco, monospace !important;
  font-style:italic;text-align:right;vertical-align:top}
.tg .tg-woea{background-color:#ffffff;border-color:inherit;font-family:"Lucida Console", Monaco, monospace !important;
  text-align:right;text-decoration:underline;vertical-align:top}
</style>
<table class="tg">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-t55k">Day</th>
    <th class="tg-3dm3"><span style="font-weight:bold">2020</span></th>
    <th class="tg-3dm3"><span style="font-weight:bold">2021</span></th>
    <th class="tg-3dm3"><span style="font-weight:bold">2022</span></th>
    <th class="tg-3dm3"><span style="font-weight:bold">2023</span></th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-c3ow">1</td>
    <td class="tg-359v">0:07:45</td>
    <td class="tg-fvx9">0:02:44</td>
    <td class="tg-jpg1">0:02:05</td>
    <td class="tg-fvx9">0:07:03</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-c3ow">2</td>
    <td class="tg-fvx9">0:04:32</td>
    <td class="tg-jpg1">0:02:57</td>
    <td class="tg-359v">0:06:16</td>
    <td class="tg-fyev">0:06:15</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-c3ow">3</td>
    <td class="tg-jpg1">0:04:56</td>
    <td class="tg-fvx9">0:10:17</td>
    <td class="tg-fyev">0:05:24</td>
    <td class="tg-jd9p">0:11:37</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-c3ow">4</td>
    <td class="tg-359v">0:12:55</td>
    <td class="tg-fyev">0:11:13</td>
    <td class="tg-wijt">0:03:22</td>
    <td class="tg-fvx9">0:07:08</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-c3ow">4</td>
    <td class="tg-fske">0:05:49</td>
    <td class="tg-woea">0:08:53</td>
    <td class="tg-fvx9">0:07:58</td>
    <td class="tg-359v">0:26:37</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-c3ow">6</td>
    <td class="tg-hd4b">0:04:35</td>
    <td class="tg-359v">0:05:47</td>
    <td class="tg-jpg1">0:02:25</td>
    <td class="tg-fvx9">0:05:02</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-c3ow">7</td>
    <td class="tg-fvx9">0:13:44</td>
    <td class="tg-jpg1">0:03:33</td>
    <td class="tg-fvx9">0:14:47</td>
    <td class="tg-359v">0:16:00</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

(table generated via [TablesGenerator.com](https://www.tablesgenerator.com/html_tables).)

---

[1] This is the time it takes for the first 100 complete solutions to be posted. After that the solutions megathread on the subreddit is unlocked. 

As the leaderboard competitors consist of the most dedicated and experienced participants, this time is a good measure of a problem's difficulty. 

%
2023-12-08 Friday,  8 December 2023

Seen on AoC Reddit: "nevermind, chatgpt gave wrong lcm.... now it works"

%

\#gaming Slipping back into Fallout 4 like a pair of well-worn slippers... so comfy... the exploration / looting / crafting loop is smooth.

I'm following ManyATrueNerd's playthrough of Sim Settlements, but it's not something that really attracts me. Besides I have like *one* achievement left to 100% the game, and a mod would disable that.

%

Argentina is huge country but can you name any other city in it other than Buenos Aires? (if you're Argentinian you're not allowed to answer) \#p친sp친ret2010

*Edit* apparently Buenos Aires is a [primate city](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primate_city#South_America)

%

&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; men va fan om jag kan ta ledtr친den p친 10p men de t칛vlande p친 6p s친 칛r antingen fr친gan f칬r l칛tt eller dom t칛vlande f칬r debila \#p친sp친ret 

%

Fascinating to see hackernews become instant experts in epidemiology, freight transport, large language models, and Nordic labor laws \#fucktesla

%
2023-12-09 Saturday,  9 December 2023

Fediverse: use spoilers/content warnings! Old nerds having colonoscopies and posting pics: fuck that.

%
2023-12-10 Sunday, 10 December 2023

Who knew the effing elves and goblins from 2018D15 would help me solve today's part 1 \#adventofcode

%

### [游닠游섫릖  The Couple Next Door (2023) S01](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt27369122/)
