2023-02-20 Monday, 20 February 2023

&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; Låt den rätta inflationen komma in (SVT Text: ”Fel inflation vänder ner”)

%

Speaking of Roald Dahl, here's a good overview in the NYRB. Spoiler, he was a bit of a shit <https://www.nybooks.com/articles/2022/12/22/making-it-big-roald-dahl-teller-of-the-unexpected/>

This is also very funny considering the recent right-wing freakout over "editorial meddling" in Dahl's works:

> [Dahl's biographer] Treglown, by contrast, makes it clear that the published version of *Matilda* owes a great deal more to the interventions of Dahl’s editor, Stephen Roxburgh, than it does to his romantic awakening. The Matilda of Dahl’s first draft was “born wicked” and most likely based on Hilaire Belloc’s poem “Matilda”: “Matilda told such Dreadful Lies,/It made one Gasp and stretch one’s Eyes.” This Matilda tortured her kind parents, declared war on her cross-dressing, mustachioed headmistress, and used her powers not to read but to fix a horse race so that her favorite teacher, Miss Hayes, a compulsive gambler, could pay off her debts.

> Roxburgh gave Dahl everything that makes *Matilda* appealing: Matilda’s unassuming intelligence, the horrendous Wormwoods, the dovelike Miss Honey. He shaped Dahl’s lazy nonsense into a story, with a beginning, middle, and end. Those of us who gained both our early, envious love of literature and a sense of its cultural imperilment from *Matilda* must offer thanks to Roxburgh. Certainly, Dahl did not. When he realized that *Matilda* was not officially under contract, he refused to do further edits and demanded a greater share of the royalties than [illustrator Quentin] Blake.

*Update, Wed 22 February 2023:* Wonkette has a good overview over how the anti-woke sausage was made: [Oh No! Roald Dahl's Publisher Made Some Really Dumb Edits And Now Free Speech Is Over](https://www.wonkette.com/oh-no-roald-dahl-s-publisher-made-some-really-dumb-edits-and-now-free-speech-is-over). Note that this entire thing is market-based, the market for children/YA readers is fierce and it's really easy to get on the wrong side of buyers. Whether this is cancel culture or not is debatable, what's not debatable is that the market for racist right-wing views is understandably small. 

%
2023-02-21 Tuesday, 21 February 2023

Either you want to blog, or you don't. If you don't, no manner of technical solutions will help you. (And yes I'm subtweeting HN).

%
2023-02-22 Wednesday, 22 February 2023

#### [🔗🛸 "Balkan Cosmology" by Bruce Sterling](https://bruces.medium.com/balkan-cosmology-by-bruce-sterling-2022-9a06b9b28bc0)

%
2023-02-23 Thursday, 23 February 2023

The statements "giant company makes record profits" and "giant company treats customers like shit" are in no way in opposition. Yet many commentators expect that the more money a company makes, the nicer it can afford to be to its customers. The cause and effect is the other way around, the more awful it is, the more money it makes. 

Likewise, people are surprised that a company spends profits buying back its own shares, thereby enriching shareholders, instead of for example investing in maintenance or infrastructure or lower prices. The shareholders are the owners! The company exists to make them richer! Customers pay the company so the company can pay shareholders. This is not rocket science, yet the current cult of "the free market solves all problems" lead to this fallacy, that companies exist to make society better, instead of making shareholders richer. 

%
2023-02-24 Friday, 24 February 2023

#### [🔗&#x1F1FA;&#x1F1E6; Robert Farley: Russia and Empire](https://www.lawyersgunsmoneyblog.com/2023/02/russia-and-empire)

> But of course the Soviet Union *was* and Russia *is* an empire, in all of the most literal ways that a political entity can be characterized as “imperial.” It controlled vast territories populated by a huge number of ethnic groups organized with a clear racial and ideological hierarchy, and managed these territories through a wide array of political arrangements. It was (and is) not fashionable to describe Poland or Hungary as Soviet colonies, but they certainly were constituent elements of the Soviet empire, differentiated from Estonia and Ukraine only by some mild differences in governance structure.

> [...] Folks who have no problem understanding why the citizens of Vietnam hate France struggle to understand why Poles or Ukrainians have negative feelings towards Russia. And unfortunately in the context of Russia’s 2022 invasion of Ukraine, folks are reluctant to frame Russia’s behavior towards Ukraine as part of its long-term colonial project towards Eastern Europe.

%
2023-02-25 Saturday, 25 February 2023

American right-wing idiots: "I don't see any footage from Ukraine in the mainstream news, the war is fake!" Same idiots: "mainstream news always lies". So the war is real, right? 

*Update, Mon 27 February 2023:* of course it's not in good faith:

[twitter thread](https://twitter.com/ChrisO_wiki/status/1629846761278779395)

> 1/ Why are far-right 'influencers' suddenly claiming, against all evidence, that the Ukraine war is a fake? They can't really be that stupid, can they? Indeed, they're not – it's cynical manipulation, not stupidity. Here's what's going on.

%

&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; fattar inte att jag bröt min Twitter-embargo med att svara på en fråga om artillerikalibrar

%

I stumbled across a random software project that still advertised its IRC channel to be on \#Freenode. I wanted to check that out, and discovered that Hexchat no longer has Freenode configured as a network. Now morbidly curious, I visited freenode.net to find the connection strings, and there was nothing there about that in the official documentation! I guess we can say Freenode is officially dead now (and yes I figured out how to connect, and the channel for the project is dead on Freenode. There are some people in the \#Libera channel though).

%
2023-02-26 Sunday, 26 February 2023

Yesterday over dinner we were speculating what the actress playing main character in *Felicity* (Keri Russell) was doing now. TIL she's the main protagonist in *Cocaine Bear*. 

%
