2023-11-01 Wednesday,  1 November 2023

If it's one thing that dates *Far Cry 3* as a game, it's the inclusion of a poker minigame.

%
2023-11-02 Thursday,  2 November 2023

### tea time

I used to be quite particular about how I took my tea (lapsang souchong with milk, I know it's heresy but I was young) but my family hated the smell of lapsang and I started to drink more coffee. So now I use bags, and generic black "English Breakfast" tea.

Teabags used to annoy me because the little tab didn't really fit into the compost recycling. Enter PG Tips which don't have a tab and are cheap. 

I'm trying to be better at steeping the tea longer. 

%
2023-11-03 Friday,  3 November 2023

Writing your own static site generator is this generation of programmer's variant of writing your own IRC client. 

%

### almost 20 years of static site publishing

My first blog was a home-grown bash script (long since lost in the mists of time).

Then I blogged using Movable Type, which infamously combines the heft of DB backing with the high latency of static.

Then I ran blosxom dynamically for a while, until the overhead of generating (poorly implemented) Markdown bogged it down. So I used its static publishing option (around 2007). 

This blog is more trad SSG.

%

reason 1,456 we're in a recession - Swedish biggest commercial TV company is streaming "Bachelorette - Denmark"

%
2023-11-04 Saturday,  4 November 2023

#### [🔗&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; Jack Werner: Flashback: Från förtalad till omtalad](https://vi.se/artikel/sNawxvep-a0j2LRwp-1a4b6) 

%
