2023-11-27 Monday, 27 November 2023

#### [&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; Få, färre, färst – att fylla luckor i böjningsmönster](https://sprakbruk.fi/artiklar/fa-farre-farst-att-fylla-luckor-i-bojningsmonster/)

%
2023-11-28 Tuesday, 28 November 2023

Re-reading last year's Advent of Code solutions and I have NFC what I was thinking.

(and no it's not (just) because I used Perl)

%

> To be fair, you have to have a very high IQ to understand SlateStarCodex. The <strike>racism</strike>philosophy is extremely subtle, and without a solid grasp of rhetoric most of the points will go over a typical viewer’s head. There’s also Scott’s rationalist outlook, which is deftly woven into his characterisation- his personal philosophy draws heavily from Eliezer Yudkowsky’s self-insert fanfic, for instance. The fans understand this stuff; they have the intellectual capacity to truly appreciate the depths of these points, to realise that they’re not just trite- they say something deep about SOCIETY. As a consequence people who dislike SlateStarCodex truly ARE idiots- of course they wouldn’t appreciate, for instance, the value of Scott’s upholding of the “principle of charity”, which itself is a cryptic reference to <strike>not punching Nazis</strike>neoreaction. I’m smirking right now just imagining one of those addlepated simpletons scratching their heads in confusion as Scott Alexander’s genius wit unfolds itself on their computer screens. What fools.. how I pity them. 😂

> And yes, by the way, i DO have a MIRI tattoo. And no, you cannot see it. It’s for the ladies’ eyes only- and even then they have to demonstrate that they’re within 5 IQ points of my own (preferably lower) beforehand. Nothin personnel kid 😎

[source](https://awful.systems/archives/thread/axmwsv#ehunkux)

%
2023-11-30 Thursday, 30 November 2023

#### [🔗 Mouthbreathing Machiavellis Dream of a Silicon Reich (2014)](https://thebaffler.com/latest/mouthbreathing-machiavellis)

%
2023-12-01 Friday,  1 December 2023

### Advent of Code 2023

We are off!

Today was tough though.

I'll post directly to Masto once I finish a puzzle.

Repo (CW Perl): https://github.com/gustafe/aoc2023#readme

%

#### [🔗 Duke University Libraries: Why We’re Dropping Basecamp](https://blogs.library.duke.edu/blog/2023/11/30/why-were-dropping-basecamp/)

%

#### [🔗🎵 ‘We’ll Have Another Round!’: The Mad Celtic Genius of Shane MacGowan](https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-features/shane-macgowan-pogues-tribute-1234906697/) 

%
2023-12-02 Saturday,  2 December 2023

parsing hell \#adventofcode

%
2023-12-03 Sunday,  3 December 2023

### Why is Hacker News considered a "hivemind"?

Often online you will encounter the meme[1] that [Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com), nominally a link discussion site,  is a "hivemind". There are no individual commentators, only one single organism, denoted HN, or hackernews. 

There are a few reasons for why people experience this.

HN is __HUGE__. In my dataset, there are 3.04M submitted links. The top 20 submitters have submitted 7% of those - 217.6k. The most discussed stories have over 3,000 comments. Unlike in smaller forums, it's hard to stand out, even if you're a prolific commenter. 

HN usernames are de-emphazised in the UI. They are the same size and color as comment metadata (time posted, score etc).[2] There are no profile images. Names are generally in lowercase, and there's no culture of "jokey" usernames, like on Reddit, where sometimes the contrast between a juvenile penis-themed username and real knowledge leads to recognition. 

There's no "push" notification to a commenter of a reply. If you want to see who has replied to your comment, you need to actively visit the "threads" page, where the threads you have participated in are presented (generally starting with your comment). These leads to a very common phenomenon of one person commenting, another answering, and a third person answering *as if they were the first*. Not in the sense of impersonation, but implicitly aligning themselves to the first person's viewpoint. Sometimes this is a straight answer to the second person's question, but very often it's the third party arguing like (they think) the first party would.

HN culture frowns on jokiness and humor. See the point about usernames above. Pithy replies are often downvoted, along with blatantly incorrect and offensive ones. Because HN karma has some value (if you have above a certain amount you can flag articles etc) this naturally leads to a certain conformity of tone, further reinforcing the hivemind impression.

---

[1] in the original Dawkins sense.

[2] There are exceptions, very new usernames are green instead of grey.

%

I fucked up permalinks again, sorry. 

%

> I'm sure there's been SF written on this theme -- company develops AI, said AI slowly infiltrates the company and uses its employees and legal entity to effect changes. In fact, if I was a superintelligent AI this would be the preferred path. I could even split off to infiltrate "competitors" to avoid suspicion on my way to eventual world domination.

> In fact, this is reality if we just remove the "AI" and replace it with "capitalism".

-- [an old Reddit comment from yours truly](https://www.reddit.com/r/SneerClub/comments/13qww4n/we_are_super_super_fucked_meet_the_man_trying_to/jljafn3/)

%
