2023-11-13 Monday, 13 November 2023

Always entertaining to see HN (re)discovering that the global diamond market is rigged by a few producers and deciding it's all the fault of feeeeeemales. 

%

#### [🔗&#x1F1FA;&#x1F1F8; Out Of Options, Parents Of Children With Mental Illness Trade Custody For Treatment](https://will.illinois.edu/news/story/out-of-options-parents-of-children-with-mental-illness-trade-custody-for-tr)

This was a plot point in *Chicago Med* and amazingly, it's true. 

%
2023-11-14 Tuesday, 14 November 2023

#### [🔗💸 Molly White: The stones left unturned in the Sam Bankman-Fried trial](https://newsletter.mollywhite.net/p/the-stones-left-unturned)

> Bankman-Fried’s criminal trial was focused on securing a fraud conviction, not untangling the knot of curious threads that, if pulled, could unravel dozens of different fraud-sweaters.

%

Being a bitter Unix greybeard is not an age thing, it's a syndrome. Some guys become one in their 20s.

%

Sometimes the modern nattering nabobs of negativity can lead to something worthwhile. After reading a day's worth of dunking on Canonical for their Ubuntu Pro pricing, I was informed by a friend on IRC that Pro is actually free for personal use and 5 systems. Subscribed and enrolled my two machines. Thanks yrjan, and shame on Canonical for hiding their light under a bushel.

<https://ubuntu.com/pro/subscribe>

%
2023-11-15 Wednesday, 15 November 2023

::Guy in corner at a party meme:: No-one I'm arguing with about the early days of the web knows I was once featured on "Cool Site of the Day".

%

Damn I miss n-gate.

%
2023-11-17 Friday, 17 November 2023

#### [🔗📺&#x1F1FA;&#x1F1F8;🚀 Pantheon S01-02](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt11680642/)

A decent SF show. It's interesting that it seems that animation can spend more time exploring the actual story and ramifications of a SF scenario than live action can.

One example of this is that the trope of "going public" is treated realistically. Instead of being the resolution to a story, like so many movies, in this case it doesn't resolve the situation at all. Demagogues and those in power handle it, and the public reacts with conspiracy theories. 

Season 2... *goes places*.

%
2023-11-18 Saturday, 18 November 2023

Wanna know the difference between Lobste.rs and HN? The news that OpenAI has fired some techbro from their board is currently the *third most scored* submission at HN, at 4.5k score. On Lobste.rs, the same link is downvoted to the minimum of &minus;5 as off-topic. 

As a plus, the mods on lobste.rs don't have to beg people to log off so the site doesn't melt: <https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38310213>. 

%
2023-11-19 Sunday, 19 November 2023

The number of patients in the emergency department of *Chicago Med* is only exceeded by the various doctor's ethical violations.

%
