2024-02-26 Monday, 26 February 2024

#### [🔗 Mike Chisholm: Absent Friend](https://idiotic-hat.blogspot.com/2024/02/absent-friend.html)

%
2024-02-27 Tuesday, 27 February 2024

### The diminishing promises of "AI" replacing human work

Like so many other cases, the instantation of a concept locks us into that instantation. Before the plethora of generative AI and large language models, we were free to imagine AI as something that could do anything. 

Years ago, I imagined a future where an AI would make the jobs of junior level jurists obsolete. The drafting of routine documents and contracts could be outsourced to machines, putting millions of relatively highly paid professionals out of work. (The same process could be applied to software developers, but I didn't really believe that at the time, from memory. Maybe it's because I actually know how to program, but I don't know anything about law work).

Later, the world was enchanted by the promises of self-driving vehicles. This technology seemed just within our grasp, enabling the elimination of millions of workers from essential functions like goods transport and personal transport. Companies like Uber bet billions that technology would enable them to not have to part with any ridesharing revenue to the pesky humans doing all the work. 

But self-driving vehicles turned out to be much harder than anyone imagined, and suddenly all the VC money got funneled into generative AI/LLMs, which promises to replace millions of poorly paid illustrators and copywriters (and programmers, although the jury is very much still out on that). 

And like a very apt illustration of pollution, the output of these models is released unfiltered into the same pool from which the data is drawn, virtually guaranteeing that *human* input will be needed in the future simply to filter out the non-sense the machines are dreaming. 

All in all, it feels like the venture capital billions are generating very small returns, and that generative AI is just another bubble. Will all the research lead to "real" AI? Who knows.

%
2024-02-28 Wednesday, 28 February 2024

#### [🔗🔭 The Prof says: Tycho was a scientist, not a blunderer and a darn good one too!][mathematicus-brahe]

[mathematicus-brahe]: https://thonyc.wordpress.com/2012/03/06/the-prof-says-tycho-was-a-scientist-not-a-blunderer-and-a-darn-good-one-too/

%

&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; såg Melodifestivalen 1979 från SVTs Öppet arkiv. Ta tillbaka en omgång och jurygrupperna! 

Nu tittar vi på 1985. Vilken skillnad! Det är som en högstadie-revy.

%
2024-02-29 Thursday, Leap day

#### [🔗 Citation needed: Issue 52 – I am Sam's low-level culpability][citation-issue-52]

[citation-issue-52]: https://www.citationneeded.news/issue-52/

%

#### [🔗 Tim Bray: [AI] Money Bubble][bray-money-bubble]

[bray-money-bubble]: https://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/202x/2024/02/25/Money-AI-Bubble

%
2024-03-02 Saturday,  2 March 2024

&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; alla bär idiotbollen i det här avsnittet av *Maria Wern*.

%
2024-03-03 Sunday,  3 March 2024

#### [🔗🖥 Memory Unsafety is a Culture Issue](https://lobste.rs/s/rx0810/memory_unsafety_is_culture_issue)

%
