2024-01-08 Monday,  8 January 2024

Flagged a submission titled "Give someone a compliment today" on lobste.rs. Human relationships are off-topic.

%
2024-01-09 Tuesday,  9 January 2024

I'd sure feel bad if the privately funded moonlander stuffed full of rich people's ashes just florped down into the atmosphere and burned up.

%

"People are so much more creative and productive when they're in an office together!" yeah but have you factored in the productivity gains you get from nodding along in a pointless Zoom while getting actual work done?

%

imagine succesfully hacking the SEC xhitter account and using that to try to pump bitcoin

%

#### [🔗 The Seven Deadly Sins of Predicting the Future of AI (2017)](https://rodneybrooks.com/the-seven-deadly-sins-of-predicting-the-future-of-ai/)

%
2024-01-10 Wednesday, 10 January 2024

### landing on the moon is space exploration fan service

I got some pushback for my snark about the Peregrine moon lander, so I thought I'd expand a bit.

I'm in favor of automatic/autonomous space exploration, as opposed to sending evolved apes into the great vacuum with all the issues about keeping them alive, healthy and fertile for long periods of time. So an unmanned lander makes sense. 

However, I'd prefer relatively rare launch capacity be reserved for unmanned probes to go to places in the solar system we don't know much about. The moon is relatively well known<sup>1</sup>, and easy to get to<sup>2</sup>.

The Apollo missions has now entered the nostalgia era. It reflects a time when the US was big and strong (ignore Vietnam!), where white cleancut men sent other cleancut men to inhospitable environments and brought them back alive. Nowadays no-one remembers if the moon project was criticized or if it was less useful. It was cold war propaganda. 

The reason NASA wants to go to the moon (and gets funding for that) is to try to reclaim the glory days of Apollo, and to prepare a Moon base for further *manned* expeditions. If you don't believe in manned spaceflight, a moon base is useless. NASA is a publicly funded agency and needs the public to ultimately want to support its mission. Sending robots to other places? Scientifically valid, and boring. Sending strong, manly men to wrest a living from the unforgiving lunar landscape? Scientifically dubious, but the fodder for many SF stories. 

In a way, getting a private company to design a moonlander stuffed with dead people's ashes and tchtotkes is a way to square the funding circle. The public money isn't just going to woke eggheads, it's also going to salespeople! There's got to be something worth digging up from the lunar surface, right? Or at least people will pay for their remains to be dumped there. 

If you support space exploration for science, the moon is a sideshow. If you want manned space flight, this is a step in that direction. I don't, so I'll continue to point and laugh when a private companies loses its trinkets in space. 

---

<sup>1</sup> of course it's always nice to know more, but priorities.

<sup>2</sup> obviously not as easy as we think, see the failure of the Peregrine, and this [xweet](https://twitter.com/Nexuist/status/1744838153079308674)

> The fact that almost every lunar lander from every country in modern times has failed to reach the moon despite an abundance of information and progress in avionics & automation highlights how truly cracked the Apollo team was

%

#### [🔗 Cory Doctorow: What Kind of Bubble is AI?](https://locusmag.com/2023/12/commentary-cory-doctorow-what-kind-of-bubble-is-ai/)

%
2024-01-11 Thursday, 11 January 2024

A week before I'm due to turn in this laptop I notice that every right click context menu in Explorer has some shitty Radeon option at the very top and I'm fighting the instinct to spend an hour researching how to remove it. 

%
