2024-06-04 Tuesday,  4 June 2024

#### [🔗 An Age of Hyperabundance: At the conversational AI conference](https://www.nplusonemag.com/issue-47/essays/an-age-of-hyperabundance/)

> All around me, the booths posed a collective thesis on the future. This was a future without busywork or buttons, a future of bespoke experiences, a future where the internet was an ambient thing we’d call upon with our voices — not a service we would use but a place where we would live. Beneath this promised future, however, was a shadow future, one that suggested itself at every turn. This was a future of screens in every establishment and no way to get help, a future in which extractive algorithms yielded relentless advertising, a future of a crapified internet, too diluted with sponcon and hallucinated facts to be of any use. In this future, if you wanted to use a product you would have to download an app and pay a monthly fee. It was a future of ultra-sophisticated scams and government surveillance, a future where anyone’s face could be spliced into porn. Our arrival in this future would be a gradual surrender, achieved through a slow creep of terms and conditions, and the capitulations had already begun.

%
2024-06-07 Friday,  7 June 2024

#### [🔗&#x1F1EC;&#x1F1E7;📺 Showtrial](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt11403434/)

Excellent show that details the work of police, Crown Prosecution Service and defenders in a high profile murder case. The usual British hangups about the involvement of press and social media are present, as well as rank hypocrisy around sex and drugs, but the trial in question is extra spicy because the two defendants are rich kids accused of killing a working-class classmate. 

Just like SF, crime shows have a sliding scale of hardness between utterly realistic and fantasy. Hour-long US dramas have half a day between arrest and full-blown jury trial, while this leans very much into realism.

%
