2024-12-09 Monday,  9 December 2024

"Could I have mispasted the input data? No. My algorithm must be wrong." \#adventofcode 

%

The situation in Syria right now really makes me miss old Twitter.

%
2024-12-14 Saturday, 14 December 2024

Not unhappy with my \#adventofcode progress so far. I'm one star down and one "personal point" down where I looked up a solution on the subreddit.

%
2024-12-16 Monday, 16 December 2024

It's amazing the amount of inanity you can hear on public transport when you forget your earphones.

%
2024-12-17 Tuesday, 17 December 2024

#### [🔗 Nitpicking Gladiator II, Part II](https://acoup.blog/2024/12/13/collections-nitpicking-gladiator-ii-part-ii/)

> I don’t want to dwell on this point too much because we want to be focused on the history, but it is in fact worth noting this is a film in which *all of the villains are queer-coded or gender-non-comforming*, whereas all of the heroes are very straight and in explicitly straight marriages. To be clear, not some, not *most*; __all. I have no idea if Ridley Scott intended to make a bigoted anti-LGBTQ film, *but he did*__.

%
2024-12-19 Thursday, 19 December 2024

GitHub suddenly offering GenAI access to everyone sure shows that this is a very desired and requested feature, yessiree. No memories of Apple forcing U2's album onto everyone's iPhone, no, not at all.

%

There's a white goods store here in Sweden called "Elon". I'm sure it seemed a good idea to rebrand to that back in the day (it's a portmanteau of the Swedish shorthand for electricity and the English "on") but right now it's like a radio store in the 1930's calling itself "Adolf".

%
2024-12-20 Friday, 20 December 2024

&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; Trosa i På spåret!!!

%
2024-12-22 Sunday, 22 December 2024

#### [📺&#x1F1EC;&#x1F1E7; Cleddau / The One That Got Away](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt33981014/?ref_=ext_shr_lnk)

This is a Welsh production (I'd have loved to included a Welsh flag emoji but it's not supported on all platforms) and we saw the English-language version - there's a Welsh version too. 

Sadly this is not a good UK crime show. There are lot's of logical inconsistencies, like a suspect being remanded before trial to a prison where a person already convicted of a similar crime is being held - and they're in communication! The prison is in England, 150 miles away, as shown in another episode. 

The cinematography is ok, and the acting too - except that the central romantic connection between two police is about as torrid as a day old Welsh rarebit. 

%

&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; Varje meddelande om att barnafödandet skall upphöra är falsk.

%
2024-12-25 Juldagen

&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA;🎄 God jul!

%
2024-12-29 Sunday, 29 December 2024

#### [🔗 Erik Loomis: Jimmy Carter](https://www.lawyersgunsmoneyblog.com/2024/12/jimmy-carter)

Resident LGM obit writer does Jimmy Carter.

%
