2024-05-21 Tuesday, 21 May 2024

We've reached the stage of the AI hype cycle where the ai-brained promptfondlers are reduced to tone-policing their opponents, because everyone hates AI now. 

%
2024-05-22 Wednesday, 22 May 2024

Content warning: community specific nit-picking.

[Yesterday's post][post-20240521] was inspired by [this amazing lobste.rs thread][lobsters-7aglnr]. To me, it shows that we have definitely reached the apex or plateau of the current "AI"/LLM hype.

[post-20240521]: https://gerikson.com/m/2024/05/index.html#d21p01_tue

[lobsters-7aglnr]: https://lobste.rs/s/7aglnr/psa_iterm2_now_has_chatgpt_integration

Consider the situation: a quintessential nerd product (a terminal emulator for the Mac) announces ChatGPT integration, and the reaction is overwhelmingly negative. The few voices not in opposition are reduced to arguing 

* it's an opt-in feature, and I'm not going to enable it anyway
* people are being mean to the developer and are unreasonably anti-LLM

There's not a semblance of a 50/50 split between supporters and detractors. The supporters are fighting a rear-guard action. 

Personally, the first reaction I had when I saw the news was visceral distaste. It lessened somewhat when I read more about feature, but it's still going to be a big entry in the con section if and when I decide to change my terminal emulator<sup>1</sup>.

Another thing specific to lobste.rs is that feature is explicitly tied to ChatGPT<sup>2</sup>, a product from OpenAI, which is a start-up which receives most of its funding from Microsoft. In the normal case, anything connected to MSFT usually elicits distaste on the site, but there's a weird exception for OpenAI, even though their technology presumably powers the newly announced Microsoft laptops which have been panned as privacy nightmares. 

---

<sup>1</sup>as an aside, the only flag I submitted to a comment was in a subthread where users of the default Terminal.app were being called effectively morons. 

<sup>2</sup>to be fair you can hook in other LLMs. 

%

Just got a rejection email from an employer with such an egregious incorrect subject line grammar in it that I'm kinda relieved.

%
2024-05-25 Saturday, 25 May 2024

#### [🔗 Wikipedia: 486958 Arrokoth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/486958_Arrokoth)

Now this is a seriously cool space rock.

It used to be called "Ultima Thule", which was quietly discarded for "Arrokoth" which is seriously metal. The reason for the name change is not noted on Wikipedia, and I don't know if it was because the term was used by a notorious Swedish white power band.

%
