2024-10-01 Tuesday,  1 October 2024

As whitepapers written in Word but dressed up to look like LaTeX were to the crapto hype, so are non-peer reviewed Arxiv papers to the LLM hype.

%
2024-10-03 Thursday,  3 October 2024

#### [🔗 Ed Zitron: OpenAI Is A Bad Business](https://www.wheresyoured.at/oai-business/)

I swear I had not read this before opining on lobste.rs this morning: 

<https://lobste.rs/s/92qcme/insatiable_hunger_open_ai#c_vgiyrk>

> The AI bubble is gonna run headlong into real economic issues. Unlike the previous dominant target of equity funding, social networks, powerplants and datacenters are hard infrastructure that need to be paid upfront, utilizing scarce knowledge workers (planners, skilled contractors etc) that will be in sudden demand all at once. This all has to be paid for, and I guess OpenAI etc are planning for previous cable TV penetration - i.e. most households in the US will be happy to pay ~$500/mo for LLM access. Maybe a big company will plan to pay twice their current SaaS spend __iff__ GenAI actually delivers on its productivity promise.

> Will this be enough to cover the cost of projects that have historically been the province of state funding (power plants)? Will there be enough money in household budgets to cover GenAI access if the power bill doubles or triples because OpenAI can spend investor money on power? What about the opportunity cost of a startup with actual benefit to humanity not being able to cover its power needs?

%
2024-10-04 Friday,  4 October 2024

YIL that you can apply the "Stamp - upward cut" ash on hammers, which provides a good counter to annoying early-game enemies like knights when used on the Morning Star \#EldenRing

%
