2025-12-08 Monday,  8 December 2025

Reached the age where I have 2 wines (pinot noir and chablis) one Scotch (Famous Grouse) and one cocktail (Old Fashioned). Just gonna get 3 suits (black, linen and tweed) and I am done. 

%
2025-12-12 Friday, 12 December 2025

#### [🔗&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; Gudrun Linns forskning påverkar hela Byggsverige](https://arbetet.se/2009/02/26/gudrun-linns-forskningpverkar-hela-byggsverige/)

Linn presenterade 1985 en avhandling om städning i hemmet som förlöjligades av både hennes kollegor och av media. Men nu har industrin tagit den till sig.

%

#### [🔗 James Vincent: Kicking Robots](https://harpers.org/archive/2025/12/kicking-robots-james-vincent-humanoids/)

Are humanoid robots a good idea? Probably not. 

%
2025-12-15 Monday, 15 December 2025

#### [🔗 John Varley, 1947-2025](https://floggingbabel.blogspot.com/2025/12/john-varley-1947-2025.html)

A short obituary by Michael Swanwick.

%
2025-12-19 Friday, 19 December 2025

&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; vilket exakt brott anser Assange att Nobelstiftelsen begått? Det vore bra om någon i svensk media tog reda på det istället för att bara upprepa Wikileaks pressrelease. 

%

gonna have to search previous blog entries for my hot takes in case I have already had them

%
2025-12-20 Saturday, 20 December 2025

#### [Wikipedia: Papal Tiara (*Triregnum*)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Papal_tiara)

> Pope Paul VI was crowned with a tiara at the papal coronation. As happened sometimes with previous popes, a new tiara was used, donated by the city of Milan, where he was archbishop before his election. [...] Near the end of the third session of the Second Vatican Council in 1964, Paul VI descended the steps of the papal throne in St. Peter's Basilica and ascended to the altar, on which he laid the tiara as a sign of the renunciation of human glory and power in keeping with the renewed spirit of the council. It was announced that the tiara would be sold and the money obtained would be given to charity.

%
2025-12-27 Saturday, 27 December 2025

&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; God fortsättning! 🎄

%
