2026-01-19 Monday, 19 January 2026

"no blood for oil" - how about "no blood for ice"?

%
2026-01-21 Wednesday, 21 January 2026

&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; För att följa upp från [det här inlägget](https://gerikson.com/m/2025/12/index.html#d19p01_fri):

> vilket exakt brott anser Assange att Nobelstiftelsen begått? Det vore bra om någon i svensk media tog reda på det istället för att bara upprepa Wikileaks pressrelease.

Någon letade fram själva texten i [PDF format](https://file.wikileaks.org/files/2025/machado29-dist.pdf), daterad 17 dec 2025.

Citat följer

---


### III. LEGAL BASIS UNDER SWEDISH LAW

* Brottsbalken (BrB) Chapter 10 §§ 1, 2 and 3: förskingring and grov förskingring (breach of trust, misappropriation and gross misappropriation)
* BrB Chapter 9 § 1: stämpling till brott (conspiracy to commit indictable offence)
* Lag (2014:406) § 16: brott mot mänskligheten och krigsförbrytelser (facilitation of war crimes and crimes against humanity) including of:
    - § 2 crimes against humanity: killing;
	- § 3 killing protected persons: shipwrecked survivors, civilians;
	- § 4 war crimes;
    - § 11 gross (aggravated) war crimes including of § 11a the crime of aggression;
	- § 15 attempted war crimes; § 16 incitement, conspiracy, and preparation for these crimes.11

* Sweden’s obligations under Article 25(3)(c) Rome Statute (facilitation of crimes within ICC jurisdiction)

These provisions apply as the Nobel Foundation is a Swedish entity managing testamentary assets, and
disbursements occur under Swedish jurisdiction. Criminal intent (uppsåt) is established by continued
payments despite public knowledge of violations, including Machado’s support for war crimes, crimes
against humanity, and involvement in U.S. efforts to effect regime change and resource theft in Venezuela
by installing the awardee through force.

---

Redan 19 dec [meddelar Omni via AFP](https://omni.se/assanges-anmalan-mot-nobelstiftelsen-laggs-ner/a/BxRlW9) att ärendet lagts ner:

> Anmälan innehöll ingen information som visade att ett brott har begåtts. Därför inleds ingen förundersökning, uppger Rikard Ekman vid polisen för AFP.

*Uppdatering 2026-01-22:* Enligt [Nobelstiftelsens stadgar, §10](https://www.nobelprize.org/about/statutes-of-the-nobel-foundation/#par10): 

> No appeals may be made against the decision of a prize-awarding body with regard to the award of a prize.

[Testamentet i sig](https://www.nobelprize.org/alfred-nobel/alfred-nobels-testamente/) är en kort läsning , och det är uppenbart att den tekniska apparaturen kring hur priser bestäms och delas ut lämnas till den eventualla stiftelsen. 

%
2026-01-22 Thursday, 22 January 2026

#### [&#x1F1F8;&#x1F1EA; Varför finns det ett Nobelpris?](https://ju.se/portal/vertikals/blogs/anders-dybelius/bloggposter/2022-12-08-varfor-finns-det-ett-nobelpris.html)

%

#### [Wikipedia: 1973 Nobel Peace Prize](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1973_Nobel_Peace_Prize)

> The 1973 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded jointly to United States Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and Worker's Party of Vietnam Politburo representative Lê Đức Thọ "for jointly having negotiated a cease fire in Vietnam in 1973." Thọ declined to accept the prize, and Kissinger accepted *in absentia* as he did not want to be targeted by anti-war protestors at the event. Kissinger later tried to return the award, but the committee declined his offer.

> The 1973 Nobel Peace Prize is often cited as one of, if not the most, controversial in the history of the award. Two members of the Norwegian Nobel Committee resigned in protest, *The New York Times* referred to it as the "Nobel War Prize", and Tom Lehrer stated that "political satire became obsolete".

%
